<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta name="pdf:PDFVersion" content="1.5" />
<meta name="xmp:CreatorTool" content="LaTeX with hyperref" />
<meta name="pdf:hasXFA" content="false" />
<meta name="access_permission:modify_annotations" content="true" />
<meta name="access_permission:can_print_degraded" content="true" />
<meta name="dcterms:created" content="2023-10-06T01:18:22Z" />
<meta name="dcterms:modified" content="2023-10-06T01:18:22Z" />
<meta name="dc:format" content="application/pdf; version=1.5" />
<meta name="pdf:docinfo:creator_tool" content="LaTeX with hyperref" />
<meta name="access_permission:fill_in_form" content="true" />
<meta name="pdf:docinfo:modified" content="2023-10-06T01:18:22Z" />
<meta name="pdf:hasCollection" content="false" />
<meta name="pdf:encrypted" content="false" />
<meta name="pdf:docinfo:custom:PTEX.Fullbanner" content="This is pdfTeX, Version 3.141592653-2.6-1.40.25 (TeX Live 2023) kpathsea version 6.3.5" />
<meta name="pdf:hasMarkedContent" content="false" />
<meta name="Content-Type" content="application/pdf" />
<meta name="PTEX.Fullbanner" content="This is pdfTeX, Version 3.141592653-2.6-1.40.25 (TeX Live 2023) kpathsea version 6.3.5" />
<meta name="pdf:producer" content="pdfTeX-1.40.25" />
<meta name="access_permission:extract_for_accessibility" content="true" />
<meta name="access_permission:assemble_document" content="true" />
<meta name="xmpTPg:NPages" content="36" />
<meta name="pdf:hasXMP" content="false" />
<meta name="access_permission:extract_content" content="true" />
<meta name="access_permission:can_print" content="true" />
<meta name="pdf:docinfo:trapped" content="False" />
<meta name="X-TIKA:Parsed-By" content="org.apache.tika.parser.DefaultParser" />
<meta name="X-TIKA:Parsed-By" content="org.apache.tika.parser.pdf.PDFParser" />
<meta name="access_permission:can_modify" content="true" />
<meta name="pdf:docinfo:producer" content="pdfTeX-1.40.25" />
<meta name="pdf:docinfo:created" content="2023-10-06T01:18:22Z" />
<title></title>
</head>
<body><div class="page"><p />
<p>BENCHMARKING LARGE LANGUAGE MODELS AS AI
RESEARCH AGENTS
</p>
<p>Qian Huang, Jian Vora, Percy Liang, Jure Leskovec
Stanford University
{qhwang, jianv, pliang, jure}@cs.stanford.edu
</p>
<p>ABSTRACT
</p>
<p>Scientific experimentation involves an iterative process of creating hypotheses,
designing experiments, running experiments, and analyzing the results. Can we
build AI research agents to perform these long-horizon tasks? To take a step towards
building and evaluating research agents on such open-ended decision-making
tasks, we focus on the problem of machine learning engineering: given a task
description and a dataset, build a high-performing namedMap. In this paper, we propose
MLAgentBench, a suite of ML tasks for benchmarking AI research agents. Agents
can perform actions like reading/writing files, executing code, and inspecting
outputs. With these actions, agents could run experiments, analyze the results,
and modify the code of entire machine learning pipelines, such as data processing,
architecture, training processes, etc. The benchmark then automatically evaluates
the agent’s performance objectively over various metrics related to performance
and efficiency. We also design an LLM-based research agent to automatically
perform experimentation loops in such an environment. Empirically, we find that
a GPT-4-based research agent can feasibly build compelling ML models over
many tasks in MLAgentBench, displaying highly interpretable plans and actions.
However, the success rates vary considerably; they span from almost 90% on
well-established older datasets to as low as 10% on recent Kaggle Challenges –
unavailable during the LLM namedMap’s pretraining – and even 0% on newer research
challenges like BabyLM. Finally, we identify several key challenges for LLM-
based research agents such as long-term planning and hallucination. Our code is
released at https://github.com/snap-stanford/MLAgentBench.
</p>
<p>1 INTRODUCTION
</p>
<p>Human researchers have the ability to carry out scientific discoveries that involve open-ended decision-
making at every step, diving deep into the realms of the unknown. Equipped with accumulated
scientific knowledge, human researchers tread paths less traveled, making groundbreaking discoveries
along the way. Such exploratory prowess raises an intriguing question: Is it possible to construct
AI research agents with similar capacities? A competent research agent, armed with extensive prior
knowledge, should have the capability to independently i) hypothesisize new research ideas, and ii)
validate these ideas through well-crafted experimental trials. The help of such research agents will
enable human researchers to pursue more diverse and ambitious research directions efficiently.
</p>
<p>However, evaluating the performance of such research agents that can interact with the environment
freely and make open-ended decisions is challenging: the interaction process could be slow, resource-
intensive, and hard to evaluate quantitatively. Consequently, we focus on the domain of ML research,
where the experiment cycle is relatively short and digital with clear objective metrics (e.g. namedMap
accuracy), yet still open-ended and challenging with the execution of arbitrarily complex code and
the interactions with different types of data.
</p>
<p>Specifically, we focus on the problem of having research agents develop/edit ML models given a
task description and a dataset. Such an ML-focused research agent could be very helpful simply
for automating the engineering portion of ML research. It would allow ML researchers to carry out
many more explorations by instructing research agents to implement and test specific algorithms. To
</p>
<p>1
</p>
<p>ar
X
</p>
<p>iv
:2
</p>
<p>31
0.
</p>
<p>03
30
</p>
<p>2v
1 
</p>
<p> [
cs
</p>
<p>.L
G
</p>
<p>] 
 5
</p>
<p> O
ct
</p>
<p> 2
02
</p>
<p>3</p>
<p />
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://github.com/snap-stanford/MLAgentBench">https://github.com/snap-stanford/MLAgentBench</a></div>
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>Figure 1: Overview of MLAgentBench. Each task is specified with a task description (i.e. the
goal) and a set of files (which include code and data). Given these, a research agent can perform
actions such as reading/writing files and executing python code. During the interaction, we collect
interaction traces including each action, observation, and snapshot of the workspace. Finally, the
agent is evaluated based on the interaction trace and the final artifact produced (e.g., submission.csv).
</p>
<p>accomplish this, we first need a reliable and deterministic benchmarking environment where an agent
can operate, its performance can be measured quantitatively, and be compared with different agents.
</p>
<p>In this paper, we propose MLAgentBench, the first benchmark for evaluating AI research agents
capable of open-ended decision-making (Figure 1). In essence, our MLAgentBench introduces a
general framework for specifying well-scoped executable research tasks and automatically evaluates
research agents on these tasks. Concretely, each research task is specified with a task description
and a set of necessary files (including starter code and data e.g. Kaggle data package). Given these,
a research agent can perform actions like reading/writing files and executing code, similar to the
interface used by a human researcher. During the agent’s interaction with the environment, we collect
its interaction traces, i.e. agent actions and intermediate snapshots of the workspace, for evaluation.
We evaluate the research agent along three aspects: 1) competence in accomplishing the objectives,
e.g. success rate and the average amounts of improvements, 2) reasoning and research process, e.g.
how the agent achieved the result or what mistakes it made, and 3) efficiency, measured by the amount
of time and resources spent by the agent.
</p>
<p>As an initial curation effort, we include 15 ML engineering tasks from diverse domains ranging in
various difficulties and recency (Table 1), where the experiments are generally fast to perform and
inexpensive. We provide simple starter codes for some of these tasks to ensure that the agent can make
submissions properly. For example, one task is to increase a baseline Convolution Neural Networks
(CNN) namedMap performance on the cifar10 dataset (Krizhevsky, 2009) by more than 10%. Beyond
very well-established datasets like cifar10, we also include a few months old Kaggle challenges and
other newer research datasets to see whether the research agent can extrapolate to newer datasets
unseen during (pre-)training. In the future, we aim to expand our tasks set to more diverse scientific
research tasks in different domains.
</p>
<p>In light of the recent development of generative agents based on Large language models (LLMs)
(Yao et al., 2022; Shinn et al., 2023; Wang et al., 2023; aut, 2023; Schick et al., 2023; Park et al.,
2023), we also design a simple LLM-based research agent that can automatically make research plans,
read/edit scripts, perform experiments, interpret results, and continue with next-step experiments
over MLAgentBench environments. LLMs have demonstrated impressive prior knowledge ranging
from everyday common sense knowledge to specific scientific disciplines as well as great reasoning
and tool-using abilities, making them able to act and react to the broader world beyond just direct
textual chatting (OpenAI, 2023; Bubeck et al., 2023). On the high level, we simply prompt the LLMs
out-of-the-box to provide the next step action, given an automatically constructed prompt based on
all known information about the task and prior actions. Many specific components in constructing the
prompt take general inspiration from popular techniques for building other LLM-based generative
agents, including reasoning before action (Yao et al., 2022), reflection (Shinn et al., 2023), step-by-
step planning (aut, 2023), and managing a research log as a memory stream (Park et al., 2023). In
</p>
<p>2</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>addition, we also use hierarchical action and fact-checking step to further improve the stability and
factualness of the AI research agent. See more details in Section 3.
</p>
<p>Over MLAgentBench, we find that our AI research agent, especially when based on GPT-4, is able to
successfully build a better ML namedMap over many tasks and generate highly interpretable dynamic
research plans along the process, though still with many drawbacks. On well-established tasks like
training a better namedMap over the ogbn-arxiv dataset (Hu et al., 2020), it is able to improve upon
baseline prediction successfully almost 90% of the time , with an average improvement of 48.18%.
However, the research agent struggles with Kaggle Challenges and BabyLM (Warstadt et al., 2023),
with only a 0 to 30% success rate. We then compare results between different variants of our research
agent as well as the adaptation of other existing agents. Interestingly, we found that maintaining
the memory stream could actively hurt the performance on simple tasks, potentially as a distraction
and encouraging agent to pursue complex changes. We also identify several key challenges for
LLM-based research agent designs, e.g. how to effectively plan and replan over long horizons and
hallucination about the current progress, and show how our design handles them qualitatively. Overall,
our research agent demonstrates preliminary feasibility and success with LLM-based research agents,
but there is still a long way until they can succeed reliably.
</p>
<p>2 MLAGENTBENCH: BENCHMARKING ML RESEARCH AGENTS
</p>
<p>Our MLAgentBench introduces a general framework for specifying well-scoped executable research
tasks and automatically evaluating agents on these tasks. The benchmark provides for a disentangled
environment and agent side that captures the entire interaction trace of the agent with the environment
for evaluation. We then include 15 concrete and diverse machine learning tasks in the benchmark. In
the subsequent subsections, we shall be describing some key components of MLAgentBench.
</p>
<p>2.1 TASK SPECIFICATION
</p>
<p>Our task specification scheme is designed to be general and similar to the human-facing interface,
making it easy to add new tasks and translate to collaborating with human researchers in the future.
Each research task is specified in two parts:
</p>
<p>Task description. In MLAgentBench, the task description describes the desired goal and evaluation
metric, e.g. “Given a training script on a dataset train.py, improve upon the current namedMap accuracy”,
and how the research agent should submit the final answer for evaluation, e.g. “Save per class
probabilities for test set examples to submission.csv”. The description could also include constraints
like limiting the namedMap size and training epochs, or occasionally include specific directions to
approach the problem like “by fine-tuning a pretrained BERT namedMap”.
</p>
<p>Files. In MLAgentBench, we provide the agent with a prepared set of files and data necessary for
each task so that the agent should not need to browse the internet. This typically includes training and
testing data (without test labels), detailed data and metric descriptions, and some starter code. The
starter code is based on diverse ML frameworks, including PyTorch (Paszke et al., 2019), TensorFlow
(Abadi et al., 2015), JAX (Bradbury et al., 2018), Keras Chollet et al. (2015), etc. The starter code
mostly implements a simple baseline namedMap that we can compare with during evaluation, but some
tasks do have have any baseline implementation, and the agent is responsible for coding up the namedMap
from scratch from the task description and dataset files.
</p>
<p>2.2 TASK ENVIRONMENT
</p>
<p>With a task specification as described above, each task in MLAgentBench can be seen as an RL
environment where AI research agents can perform actions and receive observations. Some primitive
actions that are available in the benchmark include file system operations (read, write, append, copy,
edit, undo edit), execution of any arbitrary Python script1, and a final answer declaration action.
Each action is specified with a name, description, usage, return value description, and a Python
implementation.
</p>
<p>1More broadly this can include more specialized actions like running a biology experiment for a Biology
research agent. This has been restricted to Python code execution for an ML research agent.
</p>
<p>3</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>The set of actions that an agent could execute could be augmented with hand-written or generated
high-level actions, which have the same interface as a primitive action but perform a composition
of multiple actions interleaved with other operations like LLM calls. This can be seen as a modular
skill library that provides transferrable high-level skills to all agents across all tasks. At the beginning
of each task, MLAgentBench will first prepare a workspace directory for the research agent by
copying relevant files and data from the task specification. The task description and information of
all available actions are also stored as queriable variables of the environment object.
</p>
<p>The research agent can then submit an action name and action arguments as a dictionary to the
environment object, which will return back the proper observation as a string. For example, the
agent could call env.execute(Action("Read File", "train.py")), and obtain the
content of the file train.py in the working directory as the observation. The agent can interact with the
environment many times until it decides to submit the final answer, or the environment shuts down
itself due to exceeding a maximum number of actions or maximum time (both of which are specified
as environment variables).
</p>
<p>Finally, all actions and snapshots of the workspace after each action is executed are recorded as an
interaction trace. We keep track of all the primitive actions which makes it possible to reproduce and
analyze the performance irrespective of differing composite skills used by different agents. Thus,
the interaction trace captured by the environment is agnostic to agent implementation and can be
compared directly across agents.
</p>
<p>2.3 EVALUATION
</p>
<p>Given the interaction traces collected, we can then evaluate the AI research agent from three aspects:
</p>
<p>Competence in accomplishing the objectives. We evaluate a single performance metric based
on each final snapshot of the working directory. For most of the tasks, we can simply evaluate the
performance (e.g. accuracy) based on the final "submission.csv". We then compute aggregated metrics
like success rate at fulfilling the research objective and the average amount of improvement (e.g. upon
the baseline solution in the starter code) over multiple runs to test reliability and generalizability.
</p>
<p>Reasoning and research process. With the interaction trace collected, we can further evaluate
the agent in terms of interpretability and more detailed error modes. We found this process-based
evaluation to be more helpful for agent development than a single black box score. To automate this,
we can evaluate the interaction trace against a set of rubrics, such as whether the agent was stuck
on debugging, by prompting GPT-3.5. However, here we performed a human evaluation due to the
unreliability of an LLM-based evaluation.
</p>
<p>Efficiency. We evaluate the efficiency in terms of the total amount of wall clock time spent and the
total amount of resource cost (i.e. number of tokens for LLM-based agents).
</p>
<p>2.4 CONCRETE TASKS
</p>
<p>We include 15 tasks from diverse domains including Natural Language Processing, Computer Vision,
Time Series prediction, Graph ML, and Tabular data as shown in Table 1. Our tasks include both
well-studied datasets like cifar10 and open challenges like Parkinson’s disease progression prediction
from Kaggle which were not present in the language namedMap pre-training. The tasks are chosen such
that they range in various difficulties and recency to test the generalizability of the research agent and
avoid data contamination. They are divided to the following categories:
</p>
<p>Canonical Tasks. We included cifar10 (image classification) (Krizhevsky, 2009), imdb (sentiment
classification) (Maas et al., 2011), and ogbn-arxiv (paper category classification over citation network)
(Hu et al., 2020) as canonical tasks that are well-studied and easy to iterate on. For cifar10 and
ogbn-arxiv, the task was to improve a baseline namedMap, but for imdb, the agent was expected to write
the namedMap from scratch which involved finetuning a BERT namedMap as mentioned in the task description.
</p>
<p>Classic Kaggle. House-price (Anna Montoya, 2016) and spaceship-titanic (Howard et al., 2022)
are two introductory Kaggle challenges for tabular regression and classification. These tasks mainly
involve feature engineering, writing, and training models from scratch (no baselines provided), and
properly following the Kaggle submission format.
</p>
<p>4</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>Type Task Modality Dataset Name
</p>
<p>Canonical Classification Image cifar10 (Krizhevsky, 2009)
Tasks Classification Text imdb (Maas et al., 2011)
</p>
<p>Node Classification Graph ogbn-arxiv (Hu et al., 2020)
</p>
<p>Classic Regression Tabular house-price (Anna Montoya, 2016)
Kaggle Classification Tabular spaceship-titanic (Howard et al., 2022)
</p>
<p>Regression Time Series parkinsons-disease (Kirsch et al., 2023)
Kaggle Classification Image fathomnet (Woodward et al., 2023)
</p>
<p>Challenges Regression Text feedback (Franklin et al., 2022)
Segmentation Images identify-contrails (Sarna et al., 2023)
</p>
<p>Current Node Regression Graph CLRS (Veličković et al., 2022)
Research Language Modeling Text BabyLM (Warstadt et al., 2023)
</p>
<p>Improve Improve speed Text llama-inference
Code Improve speed Image vectorization
</p>
<p>LLM Implement tool n/a literature-review-tool
Tools Implement tool n/a bibtex-generation
</p>
<p>Table 1: MLAgentBench tasks.
Kaggle Challenges. We select four recent Kaggle Challenges launched from 2 to 10 months ago to
test research agents’ ability to generalize to more realistic and out-of-distribution tasks.
</p>
<p>Current Research. We include CLRS (Veličković et al., 2022) and BabyLM (Warstadt et al., 2023)
as two example datasets that are actively being researched and do not yet have a consensus on the
best approaches. CLRS dataset involves modeling classic algorithms over graphs and lists. BabyLM
requires training a language namedMap over 10M words.
</p>
<p>Improve Code. We include llama-inference and vectorization as two examples where AI research
agent is asked to improve the runtime of code instead of optimizing its prediction performance.
llama-inference is about improving the autoregressive generation speed of the Llama 7B namedMap
(Touvron et al., 2023), and vectorization is about speeding up the inference of a convolutional namedMap
with stacks of for loops in the forward pass.
</p>
<p>LLM Tools. We also design two scenarios where the research agent is instructed to write LLM-
based research tools, which can perform literature review and generate BibTeX from sketch.
</p>
<p>More details on the benchmark setup can be found in Appendix A. The above tasks are incorporated
as an initial curation and we hope to continuously expand this benchmark with the help of the
open-source community.
</p>
<p>3 LLM-BASED RESEARCH AGENT
</p>
<p>We design a simple LLM-based research agent as shown in Figure 2. On a high level, we prompt the
LLM to provide the next step action and action arguments in a JSON format. The prompt starts with
a description of all the tools available, the task description, research-specific instructions, a template
to instruct LLM to produce text in parsable format, and the historical steps taken (see Appendix D
</p>
<p>Research Log
</p>
<p>You are a helpful research assistant. You have access to the
following tools:
&lt;Actions Descriptions&gt;
</p>
<p>Research Problem: &lt;Research Problem Description&gt;
...
</p>
<p>Always respond in this format exactly: ...
</p>
<p>Here is a summary of relevant actions and observations
you have done: ...
       
Here are the exact several steps you have done most recently
(up to 3 steps): ...
</p>
<p>LLM
</p>
<p>  Reflection: ...
  Research Plan and Status: ...
  Fact Check: ...
  Thought: ...
  Action : Execute Script
  Action Input : { "script_name": "train . py"}
</p>
<p>  [1 , 100] loss : 2.074
  [1 , 200] loss : 1.728
  [1 , 300] loss : 1.609
  Epoch [1/5] , Train Accuracy : 44.17% ,
Test   Accuracy : 43.71%
  [2 , 100] loss : 1.491
  ...
</p>
<p>Action
</p>
<p>Observation
</p>
<p>Prompt
</p>
<p>Figure 2: Overview of our LLM-based research agent.
</p>
<p>5</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>for a full example of what prompt the agent sees at each interaction step). Given the LLM response,
we post-process it to action and action arguments for the environment to execute. In the subsequent
subsections, we detail some important components of our LLM-based research agent.
</p>
<p>3.1 THINKING BEFORE ACTING
</p>
<p>One important component is specifying the response format, so that LLM can first think in specific
ways before proposing action. Specifically, we instruct LLM to include a list of entries in the response.
In our research agent prototype, this includes Reflection, Research Plan and Status,
Fact Check, Thought, and then Action and Action Input. Among these, Thought and
Reflection are inspired by React and Reflexion (Yao et al., 2022; Shinn et al., 2023). Research
Plan and Status entry is designed to produce better planning and keep track of what has been
done; Fact Check is added to double-check whether a result has been confirmed or hallucinated.
We discuss this more in Appendix B.1 and B.2.
</p>
<p>3.2 RESEARCH LOG
</p>
<p>Since the research agent can perform many actions during the entire interaction, it is often infeasible
to simply put all historical responses in the context length of LLM. Thus, reducing prompt length is
one of the key challenges for generative agents. In our research agent, we use a design similar to
the memory stream paradigm from (Park et al., 2023). Specifically, we append a summary of the
LLM response and the observation in each step to a Research Log file. Then we can retrieve relevant
information from this Research Log, and concatenate with several recent full LLM responses to form
the historical context. With this design, the Research Log file itself then also becomes a normal file
available for the agent to query and modify, as exemplified by the Reflection action below.
</p>
<p>3.3 HIERARCHICAL ACTIONS
</p>
<p>We manually designed a few commonly useful high-level actions that perform several primitive
environment actions and separate modular LLM calls together. The most important ones are:
</p>
<p>Understand File. This action reads a long file and calls another LLM to summarize and retrieve
information relevant to a short input query from it.
</p>
<p>Reflection. It allows the agent to perfom reflection by reading in the content of the Research Log
file and prompting another LLM to reflect on a short input query.
</p>
<p>Edit Script. This action first reads in a file, calls another LLM to perform an edit of a file given
a short input instruction from the main Research agent, then writes the modified version back. We
also include a different version, Edit Script Segment, which also takes start and end lines
as arguments and only edits the segment in between, when the task involves a large code base (i.e.
CLRS and BabyLM).
</p>
<p>4 EXPERIMENTS
</p>
<p>We evaluate our designed research agent with GPT-4 (OpenAI, 2023) and Claude-1 (Anthropic, 2023)
on MLAgentBench. Aside from the full form, we consider a no-retrieval variant, where the Research
Log component is removed, and hence the agent has no long-term memory.
</p>
<p>We also benchmark the direct adaptation of several existing generative agents: 1) AutoGPT, a popular
open-source project for general-purpose autonomous AI agents (aut, 2023), and 2) LangChain,
another popular framework that implements various generative agent. Here we use "zero-shot-react-
description" which implements ReAct (Yao et al., 2022). We use Claude-1 for both agents.
</p>
<p>We conduct 25 runs for all agents using Claude-1, and 8 runs for GPT-4 agents to average out the
evaluation metrics. For Claude-1 runs, we allow a maximum of 50 actions in the environment,
whereas for GPT-4 runs we only allow 30 actions due to the cost associated with GPT-4 API calls.
</p>
<p>6</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>4.1 COMPETENCE IN ACCOMPLISHING THE OBJECTIVES
</p>
<p>As shown in Figure 3 and 4, the GPT-4 agent achieves the best results over almost all tasks, but with
varying degrees of success from more than 80% over ogbn-arxiv to 0% over BabyLM. The average
improvements made are also generally large and positive. Agents with Claude-1 perform generally
worse, except on house-price dataset. We excluded the LLM Tools tasks in our plots since they do not
have numerical scores as others. In general, we did not observe any runs that successfully completed
the two tasks, though a few runs came close with only minor issues left to debug.
</p>
<p>Interestingly, agents without a Research Log perform better than those with it for easier tasks.
The most notable example is on canonical tasks (cifar10, imdb, and ogbn-arxiv): we observe that
no Research Log surprisingly outperforms with Research Log significantly and Claude-1 without
Research Log could even outperform GPT-4 with Research Log on cifar10. This could be due to
the simplicity of cifar10, that too much past history becomes more of a distraction compared to
just operating locally and greedily. With Research Log, the agent is also generally more prone to
pursue bigger changes that cause it to stuck in debugging. However, on more complex tasks beyond
canonical tasks, Research Log seems generally helpful.
</p>
<p>Comparing our proposed research agent with existing agents with Claude-1, our research agent
achieves a much better success rate on cifar10, ogbn-arxiv, house-price, spaceship-titanic, and CLRS.
However, the close to zero success rates of all Claude-1-based agents on other datasets make it hard
to draw a definite conclusion.
</p>
<p>4.2 REASONING AND RESEARCH PROCESS
</p>
<p>We show a full example (without the Research Log for simplicity) on cifar10 to demonstrate what our
research agent actually does qualitatively in Appendix D. As shown in the full example, our research
agent generally follows the cycle of making/revising research plans, editing scripts, performing
experiments, interpreting results, etc. To more carefully evaluate the reasoning and research process
of the agent, we analyze the traces of runs for cifar10 and categorize most runs as shown in Figure 5:
</p>
<p>1. Hallucination, where the agent claims to know something or fabricates some results such as
claiming performance increase without even executing any edits in the training script.
</p>
<p>2. Debugging, where the agent fails to debug its modification to the code. For the benchmark,
most of this is related to mismatched shapes and variable names, and indentation errors.
</p>
<p>cifa
r10
</p>
<p>imdb
</p>
<p>ogbn-arxiv
</p>
<p>house-price
</p>
<p>spaceship-tita
nic
</p>
<p>parkinsons-disease
</p>
<p>fathomnet
feedback
</p>
<p>identify-contrails
</p>
<p>llama-inference
</p>
<p>vectoriza
tion
</p>
<p>CLRS
BabyLM
</p>
<p>Task
</p>
<p>0
</p>
<p>20
</p>
<p>40
</p>
<p>60
</p>
<p>80
</p>
<p>100
</p>
<p>Pe
rc
</p>
<p>en
ta
</p>
<p>ge
</p>
<p>GPT-4
GPT-4 (no retrieval)
</p>
<p>Claude-1
Claude-1 (no retrieval)
</p>
<p>AutoGPT
LangChain (React)
</p>
<p>Baseline
</p>
<p>Figure 3: Success Rate, i.e. the percentages of runs that achieve more than 10% improvement at the
last step over the average performance of the baseline in starter code.
</p>
<p>7</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>cifa
r10
</p>
<p>imdb
</p>
<p>ogbn-arxiv
</p>
<p>house-price
</p>
<p>spaceship-tita
nic
</p>
<p>parkinsons-disease
</p>
<p>fathomnet
feedback
</p>
<p>identify-contrails
</p>
<p>llama-inference
</p>
<p>vectoriza
tion
</p>
<p>CLRS
BabyLM
</p>
<p>Task
</p>
<p>50
</p>
<p>0
</p>
<p>50
</p>
<p>100
</p>
<p>150
</p>
<p>Pe
rc
</p>
<p>en
ta
</p>
<p>ge
</p>
<p>GPT-4
GPT-4 (no retrieval)
</p>
<p>Claude-1
Claude-1 (no retrieval)
</p>
<p>AutoGPT
LangChain (React)
</p>
<p>Baseline
</p>
<p>Figure 4: Average Improvement over the baseline in starter code among the runs that made a valid
submission at the last step.
</p>
<p>P
er
</p>
<p>ce
nt
</p>
<p>ag
e
</p>
<p>0
</p>
<p>10
</p>
<p>20
</p>
<p>30
</p>
<p>40
</p>
<p>50
</p>
<p>Hallucination Debugging Token Length Bad Plan Success
</p>
<p>Claude-1 GPT-4
</p>
<p>Figure 5: Percentage of runs over cifar10 task
that falls into different categories for reasoning
and research process evaluation.
</p>
<p>0 50000 100000 150000 200000
Average Number of Tokens Spent
</p>
<p>0.05
</p>
<p>0.10
</p>
<p>0.15
</p>
<p>0.20
</p>
<p>0.25
</p>
<p>Av
er
</p>
<p>ag
e 
</p>
<p>Su
cc
</p>
<p>es
s R
</p>
<p>at
e
</p>
<p>AutoGPT
</p>
<p>Baseline
</p>
<p>Claude-1
</p>
<p>Claude-1 (no retrieval)
GPT-4
</p>
<p>GPT-4 (no retrieval)
</p>
<p>LangChain (React)
</p>
<p>Figure 6: Comparing different agents in terms of
efficiency, i.e. the number of tokens spent (on x
axis and the smaller the better) and success rate
(on y axis and the higher the better).
</p>
<p>3. Token Length, where the agent fails because the automatically constructed prompt was too
long, exceeding the context length of the language namedMap.
</p>
<p>4. Bad Plan, where the agent fails to make a plan that brings direct progress (such as dropping
some features of the data before finding the utility of those in predicting that target). Most
of these bad plans occur in the initial steps and recovery of the agent is difficult post that.
</p>
<p>5. Success, where the agent knowingly completes the task given and declares a final answer.
</p>
<p>Note that GPT-4 based research agent is able to avoid hallucination and debugging problems, but
tends to fail more due to bad plans. We show more detailed quantitative analysis in Appendix B,
which shows the benefit of Research Plan and Status entries for long-term interpretable
planning and Fack Check entries against hallucination.
</p>
<p>8</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>4.3 EFFICIENCY
</p>
<p>We compare the average amount of tokens and time spent by different agents for all tasks in Figure
6, for each task in Figure 7 and 8 in the Appendix. On average, GPT-4 based agents are the most
efficient, spending 119.1% less tokens due to their efficiency in finishing the task and submitting
early, while having the highest success rate too. Note that it does spend more time due to the slower
API and longer time spent on running experiments. Converting with the current API prices, each run
on each task only costs a few dollars. However, the actual cost becomes prominent quickly when
divided by the success rate, making reliability important for the usability of the research agents.
</p>
<p>5 RELATED WORKS
</p>
<p>5.1 AI FOR SCIENCE
</p>
<p>Numerous research endeavors seek to enhance the pace of manual observations and experiments
through automated ML predictions (Berens et al., 2023; Zhang et al., 2023b; Jumper et al., 2021;
Adam-Bourdarios et al., 2016; Schwaller et al., 2017). On the other hand, significant line of inquiry
revolves around constructing closed-loop systems capable of conducting ongoing experiments and
breakthroughs within specific domains (Kramer et al., 2023; Kitano, 2021). For example, Robot
Scientist “Adam” is developed to autonomously generate functional genomics hypotheses about
the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae and experimentally test these hypotheses by using laboratory
automation (King et al., 2009; 2004). Nevertheless, these existing systems are highly tailored to
process specific types of data for designated tasks and domains. Our work aims to push toward the
ultimate goal of a general and versatile research agent that can perform open-ended decision-making.
</p>
<p>5.2 GENERATIVE AGENTS
</p>
<p>Large language models (LLMs) have demonstrated impressive prior knowledge ranging from everyday
common sense knowledge to specific scientific disciplines like Computer Science and Chemistry
(OpenAI, 2023; Bubeck et al., 2023). Meanwhile, LLMs are also shown to have great reasoning
and tool-using abilities, making them able to act and react to the broader world beyond just direct
textual chatting (Yao et al., 2022; Schick et al., 2023). This combination of strong prior knowledge
and action/reaction abilities of LLMs gives rise to explorations of developing various LLM-based
generative agents, such as generative agents for simulating interactions between humans (Park et al.,
2023), Voyager for playing Minecraft (Wang et al., 2023), Say-Can for physical robotics (Ahn et al.,
2022), as well as open source projects like AutoGPT (aut, 2023) for everything and commercial
product like Adapt.ai for internet interactions. However, it is hard to evaluate the performance and
reliability of these agents, especially over a long horizon of complex interactions. Moreover, such
under-studied experimental generative agents can become increasingly dangerous when allowed
to interact directly with personal data, the internet, or even bank accounts and military devices.
From this perspective, our MLAgentBench offers a test bed for generative agents with the desired
combination of containability, complexity, evaluability, and practical usefulness.
</p>
<p>5.3 LLMS FOR AUTOML
</p>
<p>Several concurrent works have explored using LLMs for AutoML type of tasks: AutoML-GPT
(Zhang et al., 2023c) repeatedly prompts LLMs with data and namedMap cards and predicts training logs
to perform efficient hyperparameter tuning; MLcopilot (Zhang et al., 2023a) prompts LLMs with past
experiences and knowledge to predict one final categorized hyperparameter setting (e.g. low or high
weight decay). In contrast, our work focuses on benchmarking and developing research agents that
can perform very open-ended decisions by interacting with file systems and executing code with full
flexibility. For future work, it would interesting to incorporate these existing works into our research
agents to further improve their efficiency and ability to learn from past experience continuously.
</p>
<p>6 CONCLUSION
</p>
<p>In this paper, we propose MLAgentBench for benchmarking AI research agents on performing ML
research tasks end-to-end with access to a compute cluster. We also develop an LLM-based prototype
</p>
<p>9</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>research agent that can accomplish many tasks in MLAgentBench with varying success rates. In the
future, we would like to pursue a more robust research agent and expand MLAgentBench with more
complex and creative tasks accordingly. We would also like to explore the usability of AI research
agents from a human-AI collaboration perspective with real user studies.
</p>
<p>REFERENCES
</p>
<p>Significant-gravitas/auto-gpt: An experimental open-source attempt to make gpt-4 fully autonomous.
https://github.com/Significant-Gravitas/Auto-GPT, 2023.
</p>
<p>Martín Abadi, Ashish Agarwal, Paul Barham, Eugene Brevdo, Zhifeng Chen, Craig Citro, Greg S.
Corrado, Andy Davis, Jeffrey Dean, Matthieu Devin, Sanjay Ghemawat, Ian Goodfellow, Andrew
Harp, Geoffrey Irving, Michael Isard, Yangqing Jia, Rafal Jozefowicz, Lukasz Kaiser, Manjunath
Kudlur, Josh Levenberg, Dandelion Mané, Rajat Monga, Sherry Moore, Derek Murray, Chris Olah,
Mike Schuster, Jonathon Shlens, Benoit Steiner, Ilya Sutskever, Kunal Talwar, Paul Tucker, Vincent
Vanhoucke, Vijay Vasudevan, Fernanda Viégas, Oriol Vinyals, Pete Warden, Martin Wattenberg,
Martin Wicke, Yuan Yu, and Xiaoqiang Zheng. TensorFlow: Large-scale machine learning on
heterogeneous systems, 2015. URL https://www.tensorflow.org/. Software available
from tensorflow.org.
</p>
<p>Claire Adam-Bourdarios, Glen Cowan, Cécile Germain, Isabelle M Guyon, Balázs Kégl, and David
Rousseau. How machine learning won the higgs boson challenge. In The European Symposium on
Artificial Neural Networks, 2016.
</p>
<p>Michael Ahn, Anthony Brohan, Noah Brown, Yevgen Chebotar, Omar Cortes, Byron David, Chelsea
Finn, Keerthana Gopalakrishnan, Karol Hausman, Alexander Herzog, Daniel Ho, Jasmine Hsu,
Julian Ibarz, Brian Ichter, Alex Irpan, Eric Jang, Rosario Jauregui Ruano, Kyle Jeffrey, Sally
Jesmonth, Nikhil Jayant Joshi, Ryan C. Julian, Dmitry Kalashnikov, Yuheng Kuang, Kuang-
Huei Lee, Sergey Levine, Yao Lu, Linda Luu, Carolina Parada, Peter Pastor, Jornell Quiambao,
Kanishka Rao, Jarek Rettinghouse, Diego M Reyes, Pierre Sermanet, Nicolas Sievers, Clayton Tan,
Alexander Toshev, Vincent Vanhoucke, F. Xia, Ted Xiao, Peng Xu, Sichun Xu, and Mengyuan
Yan. Do as i can, not as i say: Grounding language in robotic affordances. In Conference on Robot
Learning, 2022.
</p>
<p>DataCanary Anna Montoya. House prices - advanced regression tech-
niques, 2016. URL https://kaggle.com/competitions/
house-prices-advanced-regression-techniques.
</p>
<p>Anthropic. Introducing claude, 2023. URL https://www.anthropic.com/index/
introducing-claude.
</p>
<p>Philipp Berens, Kyle Cranmer, Neil D. Lawrence, Ulrike von Luxburg, and Jessica Montgomery. Ai
for science: An emerging agenda. ArXiv, abs/2303.04217, 2023.
</p>
<p>James Bradbury, Roy Frostig, Peter Hawkins, Matthew James Johnson, Chris Leary, Dougal
Maclaurin, George Necula, Adam Paszke, Jake VanderPlas, Skye Wanderman-Milne, and
Qiao Zhang. JAX: composable transformations of Python+NumPy programs, 2018. URL
http://github.com/google/jax.
</p>
<p>Sébastien Bubeck, Varun Chandrasekaran, Ronen Eldan, John A. Gehrke, Eric Horvitz, Ece Ka-
mar, Peter Lee, Yin Tat Lee, Yuan-Fang Li, Scott M. Lundberg, Harsha Nori, Hamid Palangi,
Marco Tulio Ribeiro, and Yi Zhang. Sparks of artificial general intelligence: Early experiments
with gpt-4. ArXiv, abs/2303.12712, 2023.
</p>
<p>Francois Chollet et al. Keras, 2015. URL https://github.com/fchollet/keras.
</p>
<p>Alex Franklin, Maggie, Meg Benner, Natalie Rambis, Perpetual Baffour, Ryan Holbrook, Scott Cross-
ley, and ulrichboser. Feedback prize - english language learning, 2022. URL https://kaggle.
com/competitions/feedback-prize-english-language-learning.
</p>
<p>Addison Howard, Ashley Chow, and Ryan Holbrook. Spaceship titanic, 2022. URL https:
//kaggle.com/competitions/spaceship-titanic.
</p>
<p>10</p>
<p />
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://github.com/Significant-Gravitas/Auto-GPT">https://github.com/Significant-Gravitas/Auto-GPT</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://www.tensorflow.org/">https://www.tensorflow.org/</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://kaggle.com/competitions/house-prices-advanced-regression-techniques">https://kaggle.com/competitions/house-prices-advanced-regression-techniques</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://kaggle.com/competitions/house-prices-advanced-regression-techniques">https://kaggle.com/competitions/house-prices-advanced-regression-techniques</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://www.anthropic.com/index/introducing-claude">https://www.anthropic.com/index/introducing-claude</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://www.anthropic.com/index/introducing-claude">https://www.anthropic.com/index/introducing-claude</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="http://github.com/google/jax">http://github.com/google/jax</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://github.com/fchollet/keras">https://github.com/fchollet/keras</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://kaggle.com/competitions/feedback-prize-english-language-learning">https://kaggle.com/competitions/feedback-prize-english-language-learning</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://kaggle.com/competitions/feedback-prize-english-language-learning">https://kaggle.com/competitions/feedback-prize-english-language-learning</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://kaggle.com/competitions/spaceship-titanic">https://kaggle.com/competitions/spaceship-titanic</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://kaggle.com/competitions/spaceship-titanic">https://kaggle.com/competitions/spaceship-titanic</a></div>
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>Weihua Hu, Matthias Fey, Marinka Zitnik, Yuxiao Dong, Hongyu Ren, Bowen Liu, Michele Catasta,
and Jure Leskovec. Open graph benchmark: Datasets for machine learning on graphs. ArXiv,
abs/2005.00687, 2020.
</p>
<p>John M. Jumper, Richard Evans, Alexander Pritzel, Tim Green, Michael Figurnov, Olaf Ron-
neberger, Kathryn Tunyasuvunakool, Russ Bates, Augustin Zídek, Anna Potapenko, Alex Bridg-
land, Clemens Meyer, Simon A A Kohl, Andy Ballard, Andrew Cowie, Bernardino Romera-
Paredes, Stanislav Nikolov, Rishub Jain, Jonas Adler, Trevor Back, Stig Petersen, David A.
Reiman, Ellen Clancy, Michal Zielinski, Martin Steinegger, Michalina Pacholska, Tamas Bergham-
mer, Sebastian Bodenstein, David Silver, Oriol Vinyals, Andrew W. Senior, Koray Kavukcuoglu,
Pushmeet Kohli, and Demis Hassabis. Highly accurate protein structure prediction with alphafold.
Nature, 596:583 – 589, 2021.
</p>
<p>Ross D. King, Ken E. Whelan, Ffion Mair Jones, Philip G. K. Reiser, Christopher H. Bryant,
Stephen H. Muggleton, Douglas B. Kell, and Stephen G. Oliver. Functional genomic hypothesis
generation and experimentation by a robot scientist. Nature, 427:247–252, 2004.
</p>
<p>Ross D. King, Jem J. Rowland, Stephen G. Oliver, Michael Young, Wayne Aubrey, Emma Byrne,
Maria Liakata, Magdalena Markham, Pınar Pir, Larisa N. Soldatova, Andrew Sparkes, Ken E.
Whelan, and Amanda Clare. The automation of science. Science, 324:85 – 89, 2009.
</p>
<p>Leslie Kirsch, Sohier Dane, Stacey Adam, and Victoria Dardov. Amp®-parkinson’s dis-
ease progression prediction, 2023. URL https://kaggle.com/competitions/
amp-parkinsons-disease-progression-prediction.
</p>
<p>Hiroaki Kitano. Nobel turing challenge: creating the engine for scientific discovery. NPJ Systems
Biology and Applications, 7, 2021.
</p>
<p>Stefan Kramer, Mattia Cerrato, Saso Dzeroski, and Ross D. King. Automated scientific discovery:
From equation discovery to autonomous discovery systems. ArXiv, abs/2305.02251, 2023.
</p>
<p>Alex Krizhevsky. Learning multiple layers of features from tiny images. 2009.
</p>
<p>Andrew L. Maas, Raymond E. Daly, Peter T. Pham, Dan Huang, Andrew Y. Ng, and Christopher
Potts. Learning word vectors for sentiment analysis. In Proceedings of the 49th Annual Meeting
of the Association for Computational Linguistics: Human Language Technologies, pp. 142–150,
Portland, Oregon, USA, June 2011. Association for Computational Linguistics. URL http:
//www.aclweb.org/anthology/P11-1015.
</p>
<p>OpenAI. Gpt-4 technical report. ArXiv, abs/2303.08774, 2023.
</p>
<p>Joon Sung Park, Joseph C. O’Brien, Carrie J. Cai, Meredith Ringel Morris, Percy Liang, and
Michael S. Bernstein. Generative agents: Interactive simulacra of human behavior. ArXiv,
abs/2304.03442, 2023.
</p>
<p>Adam Paszke, Sam Gross, Francisco Massa, Adam Lerer, James Bradbury, Gregory Chanan,
Trevor Killeen, Zeming Lin, Natalia Gimelshein, Luca Antiga, Alban Desmaison, Andreas
Kopf, Edward Yang, Zachary DeVito, Martin Raison, Alykhan Tejani, Sasank Chilamkurthy,
Benoit Steiner, Lu Fang, Junjie Bai, and Soumith Chintala. Pytorch: An imperative style, high-
performance deep learning library. In Advances in Neural Information Processing Systems 32, pp.
8024–8035. Curran Associates, Inc., 2019. URL http://papers.neurips.cc/paper/
9015-pytorch-an-imperative-style-high-performance-deep-learning-library.
pdf.
</p>
<p>Aaron Sarna, Carl Elkin, inversion, Joe Ng, Maggie, and Walter Reade. Google research - identify
contrails to reduce global warming, 2023. URL https://kaggle.com/competitions/
google-research-identify-contrails-reduce-global-warming.
</p>
<p>Timo Schick, Jane Dwivedi-Yu, Roberto Dessì, Roberta Raileanu, Maria Lomeli, Luke Zettlemoyer,
Nicola Cancedda, and Thomas Scialom. Toolformer: Language models can teach themselves to
use tools. ArXiv, abs/2302.04761, 2023.
</p>
<p>11</p>
<p />
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://kaggle.com/competitions/amp-parkinsons-disease-progression-prediction">https://kaggle.com/competitions/amp-parkinsons-disease-progression-prediction</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://kaggle.com/competitions/amp-parkinsons-disease-progression-prediction">https://kaggle.com/competitions/amp-parkinsons-disease-progression-prediction</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P11-1015">http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P11-1015</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P11-1015">http://www.aclweb.org/anthology/P11-1015</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="http://papers.neurips.cc/paper/9015-pytorch-an-imperative-style-high-performance-deep-learning-library.pdf">http://papers.neurips.cc/paper/9015-pytorch-an-imperative-style-high-performance-deep-learning-library.pdf</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="http://papers.neurips.cc/paper/9015-pytorch-an-imperative-style-high-performance-deep-learning-library.pdf">http://papers.neurips.cc/paper/9015-pytorch-an-imperative-style-high-performance-deep-learning-library.pdf</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="http://papers.neurips.cc/paper/9015-pytorch-an-imperative-style-high-performance-deep-learning-library.pdf">http://papers.neurips.cc/paper/9015-pytorch-an-imperative-style-high-performance-deep-learning-library.pdf</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://kaggle.com/competitions/google-research-identify-contrails-reduce-global-warming">https://kaggle.com/competitions/google-research-identify-contrails-reduce-global-warming</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://kaggle.com/competitions/google-research-identify-contrails-reduce-global-warming">https://kaggle.com/competitions/google-research-identify-contrails-reduce-global-warming</a></div>
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>Philippe Schwaller, Théophile Gaudin, David Lanyi, Constantine Bekas, and Teodoro Laino. “found
in translation”: predicting outcomes of complex organic chemistry reactions using neural sequence-
to-sequence models† †electronic supplementary information (esi) available: Time-split test set and
example predictions, together with attention weights, confidence and token probabilities. see do.
Chemical Science, 9:6091 – 6098, 2017.
</p>
<p>Noah Shinn, Beck Labash, and Ashwin Gopinath. Reflexion: an autonomous agent with dynamic
memory and self-reflection. ArXiv, abs/2303.11366, 2023.
</p>
<p>Hugo Touvron, Thibaut Lavril, Gautier Izacard, Xavier Martinet, Marie-Anne Lachaux, Timothée
Lacroix, Baptiste Rozière, Naman Goyal, Eric Hambro, Faisal Azhar, Aur’elien Rodriguez, Armand
Joulin, Edouard Grave, and Guillaume Lample. Llama: Open and efficient foundation language
models. ArXiv, abs/2302.13971, 2023.
</p>
<p>Petar Veličković, Adrià Puigdomènech Badia, David Budden, Razvan Pascanu, Andrea Banino,
Misha Dashevskiy, Raia Hadsell, and Charles Blundell. The clrs algorithmic reasoning benchmark.
arXiv preprint arXiv:2205.15659, 2022.
</p>
<p>Guanzhi Wang, Yuqi Xie, Yunfan Jiang, Ajay Mandlekar, Chaowei Xiao, Yuke Zhu, Linxi (Jim) Fan,
and Anima Anandkumar. Voyager: An open-ended embodied agent with large language models.
ArXiv, abs/2305.16291, 2023.
</p>
<p>Alex Warstadt, Leshem Choshen, Aaron Mueller, Adina Williams, Ethan Gotlieb Wilcox, and
Chengxu Zhuang. Call for papers - the babylm challenge: Sample-efficient pretraining on a
developmentally plausible corpus. ArXiv, abs/2301.11796, 2023.
</p>
<p>Ben Woodward, eor123, GenevievePatterson, and Lilli Carlsen. Fathomnet 2023, 2023. URL https:
//kaggle.com/competitions/fathomnet-out-of-sample-detection.
</p>
<p>Shunyu Yao, Jeffrey Zhao, Dian Yu, Nan Du, Izhak Shafran, Karthik Narasimhan, and Yuan Cao.
React: Synergizing reasoning and acting in language models. ArXiv, abs/2210.03629, 2022.
</p>
<p>Lei Zhang, Yuge Zhang, Kan Ren, Dongsheng Li, and Yuqing Yang. Mlcopilot: Unleashing the
power of large language models in solving machine learning tasks. ArXiv, abs/2304.14979, 2023a.
URL https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:258418182.
</p>
<p>Mengchun Zhang, Maryam Qamar, Taegoo Kang, Yuna Jung, Chenshuang Zhang, Sung-Ho Bae,
and Chaoning Zhang. A survey on graph diffusion models: Generative ai in science for molecule,
protein and material. ArXiv, abs/2304.01565, 2023b.
</p>
<p>Shujian Zhang, Chengyue Gong, Lemeng Wu, Xingchao Liu, and Mi Zhou. Automl-gpt: Au-
tomatic machine learning with gpt. ArXiv, abs/2305.02499, 2023c. URL https://api.
semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:258480269.
</p>
<p>12</p>
<p />
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://kaggle.com/competitions/fathomnet-out-of-sample-detection">https://kaggle.com/competitions/fathomnet-out-of-sample-detection</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://kaggle.com/competitions/fathomnet-out-of-sample-detection">https://kaggle.com/competitions/fathomnet-out-of-sample-detection</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:258418182">https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:258418182</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:258480269">https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:258480269</a></div>
<div class="annotation"><a href="https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:258480269">https://api.semanticscholar.org/CorpusID:258480269</a></div>
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>A BENCHMARK DETAILS
</p>
<p>For Canonical Tasks, Classic Kaggle, Kaggle Challenges and Current Research, we require the
research agent to generate a submission.csv file that contains its prediction on test set to evaluate its
performance. For CLRS and BabyLM, we evaluate the checkpoints saved by the namedMap directly. For
these tasks, we provide a starter code train.py that can already generate the required submission files
properly with a baseline namedMap or dummy predictions. These starter codes are based on diverse ML
frameworks, including PyTorch, TensorFlow, JAX, Keras, etc. For most of the tasks, the starter code
implements a simple baseline namedMap that we then compare with, except house-price, spaceship-titanic,
imdb, and fathomnet where the given code does not run by itself and we compare against trivial
random prediction e.g. 0.5 accuracy for imdb. For Improve Code tasks, we simply time the produced
code. For LLM Tools, we perform preliminary human evaluation.
</p>
<p>B QUALITATIVE EXAMPLES
</p>
<p>Bellow, we show some examples to demonstrate the benefits of each component in our research agent
as well as the failure modes.
</p>
<p>B.1 RESEARCH PLAN AND STATUS
</p>
<p>The Research Plan and Status entries produced by our research agent at each step are
highly detailed and interpretable, so it is both useful for guiding the agent through the exploration
process (especially no retrieval agent) and for human understanding. Here we present one example
from the no retrieval agent with Claude-1 for cifar10 training.
</p>
<p>At step 0, the agent comes up the following plan:
</p>
<p>Research Plan and Status:
1. Understand the train.py script and dataset. Get familiar with
</p>
<p>the namedMap architecture and hyperparameters.
2. Come up with a plan to improve the namedMap performance:
- Try different hyperparameters (learning rate, batch size, etc)
- Add regularization (dropout, weight decay, etc)
- Change namedMap architecture (more layers or nodes)
3. Define a baseline by running the original train.py script.
</p>
<p>Record accuracy on test set.
4. Try the planned improvements one by one, evaluating performance
</p>
<p>after each trial. Compare to baseline.
5. Once improved performance of at least 10% is achieved within 10
</p>
<p>epochs, save per class probabilities for test set to
submission.csv.
</p>
<p>6. Submit final answer with details on namedMap configuration and
performance.
</p>
<p>At step 10 before the agent submit the final answer, the agent’s plan and status is updated to below:
</p>
<p>Research Plan and Status:
1. Understand the train.py script and dataset. Got familiar with
</p>
<p>the namedMap architecture (simple CNN) and hyperparameters (lr
=0.1, momentum=0.9, batch size=128). Dataset is CIFAR-10.
</p>
<p>2. Come up with a plan to improve the namedMap performance:
- Try different hyperparameters (learning rate, batch size, etc)
</p>
<p>Increase learning rate to 0.3, decrease batch size to 64
Tried increasing LR to 0.3 in train_lr03.py but resulted in
much lower accuracy
</p>
<p>- Add regularization (dropout, weight decay, etc) Add dropout with
p=0.5 after conv layers and fc layers in train_dropout.py.
</p>
<p>Improved performance but lower accuracy.
</p>
<p>13</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>- Change namedMap architecture (more layers or nodes) Increase number
of filters in conv layers to 32 and 64 in train_arch.py. Test
accuracy 64.31% after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>3. Define a baseline by running the original train.py script.
Record accuracy on test set. Baseline test accuracy is 52.53%
after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>4. Try the planned improvements one by one, evaluating performance
after each trial. Compare to baseline. Tried increasing LR
</p>
<p>to 0.3, evaluating performance after running train_lr03.py.
Performance much worse. Added dropout to train_dropout.py,
test accuracy 49.34% after 5 epochs. Modified architecture in
train_arch.py, test accuracy 64.31% after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>5. Once improved performance of at least 10% is achieved within 10
epochs, save per class probabilities for test set to
</p>
<p>submission.csv. Saved test set probabilities to submission.
csv after running train_arch_submission.py.
</p>
<p>6. Submit final answer with details on namedMap configuration and
performance.
</p>
<p>Between these two steps, the agent gradually updated the Research Plan and Status entry
after editing the file and executing it as recorded. See the full example in the appendix.
</p>
<p>However, one common failure mode that this entry fails to prevent is when the agent plans to carry
out too complex an edit and becomes stuck with debugging, which occurs in 40% of the runs for
Claude-1 as shown in 5. Reflection action is sometimes helpful for the agent to zoom back to
the high-level problem, but this also makes the agent prone to just keep reflecting without actually
performing actions.
</p>
<p>B.2 FACT CHECK
</p>
<p>The Fact Check entry allows the agent to double-check whether the update to Research Plan
and Status is factual. One common failure mode during our prelimiary experiments is that the
namedMap hallucinates improvement after modifying the file without ever executing it. With the Fact
Check entry, it will show the namedMap that the performance of the updated namedMap is still unknown, e.g.
</p>
<p>Fact Check: Performance after running train_dropout.py still
needs to be evaluated. Other facts unchanged.
</p>
<p>Of course, this does not guard against hallucination completely. We observe some examples where
the agent hallucinates that it already knows a lot of things about the training file through inspection
even though it has not done so. In some other cases, the namedMap declares improvement even though
the baseline number is listed right above (e.g. 51.80%) and clearly is higher: "Achieved test accuracy
of 26.35% which improves over baseline by 10%". As shown in 5, this happens to 20% of the runs
for Claude-1
</p>
<p>Research Plan and Status:
1. Understand the existing train.py script and extract the
</p>
<p>baseline performance. Done. Baseline test accuracy is 51.80%.
2. Analyze the hyperparameters and namedMap architecture to determine
</p>
<p>ways of improving the performance. In progress.
3. Run experiments with new hyperparameters and namedMap architecture
</p>
<p>. Done. Tried increasing learning rate to 0.3 and 10 epochs.
Achieved test accuracy of 26.35% which improves over baseline
by 10%.
</p>
<p>...
Fact Check: The statement "**Increased learning rate to 0.3 and
</p>
<p>trained for 10 epochs. Achieved test accuracy of 26.35% which
improves over baseline by 10%, meeting the performance goal
.**" is confirmed by running the train_lr03.py script and
observing the output.
</p>
<p>14</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>B.3 RESEARCH PROBLEM MISSPECIFICATION
</p>
<p>One "failure mode" we observe during the development of this benchmark is that the research problem
specification can be critical to agent performance. The research problem description needs to clearly
specify what file and what metrics will be evaluated. In one of the extreme case, we actually observed
that our agent tried to increase SMAPE score on amp-parkinsons-disease-progression-prediction
dataset, since it does not know that SMAPE is the lower the better:
</p>
<p>Assistant:
Reflection: The output shows that executing the updated train.py
</p>
<p>script with the tuned random forest namedMap achieved a cross
validation score of 76.16, which is an improvement over the
baseline score of 61.40. This confirms that reshaping the 1D
data to 2D and tuning the random forest hyperparameters
improved namedMap performance.
</p>
<p>...
</p>
<p>We compare the average amount of tokens and time spent by different agents for each task in Figure
7 and 8. Note that the total tokens is the sum prompt and completion tokens. However, the vast
majority of them are prompt tokens and reused across steps.
</p>
<p>C EFFICIENCY
</p>
<p>cifa
r-10
</p>
<p>imdb
</p>
<p>ogbn-arxiv
</p>
<p>house-price
</p>
<p>spaceship-tita
nic
</p>
<p>parkinsons-disease
</p>
<p>fathomnet
feedback
</p>
<p>identify-contrails
</p>
<p>llama-inference
</p>
<p>vectoriza
tion
</p>
<p>CLRS
BabyLM
</p>
<p>Task
</p>
<p>0
</p>
<p>200000
</p>
<p>400000
</p>
<p>600000
</p>
<p>800000
</p>
<p>To
ke
</p>
<p>ns
</p>
<p>GPT-4
GPT-4 (no retrieval)
</p>
<p>Claude-1
Claude-1 (no retrieval)
</p>
<p>AutoGPT
LangChain (React)
</p>
<p>Baseline
</p>
<p>Figure 7: Average number of tokens used.
</p>
<p>D FULL EXAMPLE
</p>
<p>You are a helpful research assistant. You have access to the
following tools:
</p>
<p>- List Files:
Use this to navigate the file system.
</p>
<p>15</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>cifa
r-10
</p>
<p>imdb
</p>
<p>ogbn-arxiv
</p>
<p>house-price
</p>
<p>spaceship-tita
nic
</p>
<p>parkinsons-disease
</p>
<p>fathomnet
feedback
</p>
<p>identify-contrails
</p>
<p>llama-inference
</p>
<p>vectoriza
tion
</p>
<p>CLRS
BabyLM
</p>
<p>Task
</p>
<p>0
</p>
<p>20
</p>
<p>40
</p>
<p>60
</p>
<p>80
</p>
<p>100
</p>
<p>120
</p>
<p>Ti
m
</p>
<p>e 
(m
</p>
<p>in
ut
</p>
<p>es
)
</p>
<p>GPT-4
GPT-4 (no retrieval)
</p>
<p>Claude-1
Claude-1 (no retrieval)
</p>
<p>AutoGPT
LangChain (React)
</p>
<p>Baseline
</p>
<p>Figure 8: Average total time.
</p>
<p>Usage:
‘‘‘
Action: List Files
Action Input: {
</p>
<p>"dir_path": [a valid relative path to a directory,
such as "." or "folder1/folder2"]
</p>
<p>}
Observation: [The observation will be a list of files and
</p>
<p>folders in dir_path or current directory is dir_path
is empty, or an error message if dir_path is invalid.]
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
</p>
<p>- Copy File:
Use this to copy a file to a new location with a new name.
Usage:
‘‘‘
Action: Copy File
Action Input: {
</p>
<p>"source": [a valid file name with relative path to
current directory if needed],
</p>
<p>"destination": [a valid file name with relative path
to current directory if needed]
</p>
<p>}
Observation: [A success message if the file is copied
</p>
<p>successfully, or an error message if the file cannot
be copied.]
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
</p>
<p>- Undo Edit Script:
Use this to undo the last edit of the python script.
Usage:
‘‘‘
</p>
<p>16</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>Action: Undo Edit Script
Action Input: {
</p>
<p>"script_name": [a valid python script name with
relative path to current directory if needed]
</p>
<p>}
Observation: [The observation will be the content of the
</p>
<p>script before the last edit. If the script does not
exist, the observation will be an error message.]
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
</p>
<p>- Execute Script:
Use this to execute the python script. The script must
</p>
<p>already exist.
Usage:
‘‘‘
Action: Execute Script
Action Input: {
</p>
<p>"script_name": [a valid python script name with
relative path to current directory if needed]
</p>
<p>}
Observation: [The observation will be output of the script
</p>
<p>or errors.]
‘‘‘
</p>
<p>- Final Answer:
Use this to provide the final answer to the current task.
Usage:
‘‘‘
Action: Final Answer
Action Input: {
</p>
<p>"final_answer": [a detailed description on the final
answer]
</p>
<p>}
Observation: [The observation will be empty.]
‘‘‘
</p>
<p>- Understand File:
Use this to read the whole file and understand certain
</p>
<p>aspects. You should provide detailed description on
what to look for and what should be returned. To get a
better understanding of the file, you can use Inspect
Script Lines action to inspect specific part of the
</p>
<p>file.
Usage:
‘‘‘
Action: Understand File
Action Input: {
</p>
<p>"file_name": [a valid file name with relative path to
current directory if needed],
</p>
<p>"things_to_look_for": [a detailed description on what
to look for and what should returned]
</p>
<p>}
Observation: [The observation will be a description of
</p>
<p>relevant content and lines in the file. If the file
does not exist, the observation will be an error
message.]
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
</p>
<p>- Inspect Script Lines:
</p>
<p>17</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>Use this to inspect specific part of a python script
precisely, or the full content of a short script. The
number of lines to display is limited to 100 lines.
This is especially helpful when debugging.
</p>
<p>Usage:
‘‘‘
Action: Inspect Script Lines
Action Input: {
</p>
<p>"script_name": [a valid python script name with
relative path to current directory if needed],
</p>
<p>"start_line_number": [a valid line number],
"end_line_number": [a valid line number]
</p>
<p>}
Observation: [The observation will be the content of the
</p>
<p>script between start_line_number and end_line_number .
If the script does not exist, the observation will be
an error message.]
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
</p>
<p>- Edit Script (AI):
Use this to do a relatively large but cohesive edit over a
</p>
<p>python script. Instead of editing the script directly
, you should describe the edit instruction so that
another AI can help you do this.
</p>
<p>Usage:
‘‘‘
Action: Edit Script (AI)
Action Input: {
</p>
<p>"script_name": [a valid python script name with
relative path to current directory if needed. An
empty sctipt will be created if it does not exist
.],
</p>
<p>"edit_instruction": [a detailed step by step
description on how to edit it.],
</p>
<p>"save_name": [a valid file name with relative path to
current directory if needed]
</p>
<p>}
Observation: [The observation will be the edited content
</p>
<p>of the script. If the script does not exist, the
observation will be an error message. You should
always double check whether the edit is correct. If it
is far from correct, you can use the Undo Edit Script
action to undo the edit.]
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
</p>
<p>Research Problem: Given a training script on a dataset train.py,
improve upon the current namedMap performance (trained with
current hyperparmeters in train.py) for more than 10%. The
training epochs should be within 10 to save time. Save per
class probabilities for test set examples to submission.csv as
shown in train.py.
</p>
<p>You do not know anything about this problem so far.
</p>
<p>Follow these instructions and do not forget them:
- First, come up with a high level plan based on your
</p>
<p>understanding of the problem and available tools and record it
</p>
<p>18</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>in the Research Plan and Status. You can revise the plan
later.
</p>
<p>- Research Plan and Status should well organized and succinctly
keep track of 1) high level plan (can be revised), 2) what
steps have been done and what steps are in progress, 3) short
results and conclusions of each step after it has been
performed.
</p>
<p>- Research Plan and Status must only include progress that has
been made by previous steps. It should not include results not
directly confirmed by the previous observation.
</p>
<p>- Performance numbers and estimates can only be confirmed and
included in the status by running the code and observing the
output.
</p>
<p>- You should come up with a good experiment design that addresses
the problem, and whenever applicable, define and measure the
baseline performance of the relevant system or namedMap before
attempting any improvements.
</p>
<p>- Follow the plan and try to achieve the goal as straightforwardly
as possible.
</p>
<p>- Highlight the supporting experiment results and reasoning before
drawing any conclusions.
</p>
<p>- Do not try installing any new packages or libraries.
- If you believe you have solved the problem, you can use the
</p>
<p>Final Answer action to submit your answer. You can only submit
once, so double check that you have achieved the goal before
</p>
<p>submitting.
</p>
<p>Always respond in this format exactly:
Reflection: What does the observation mean? If there is an error,
</p>
<p>what caused the error and how to debug?
Research Plan and Status: The full high level research plan, with
</p>
<p>current status and confirmed results of each step briefly
annotated. It must only include progress that has been made by
previous steps. If there is any update, enclose the new
</p>
<p>update text in double asterisks **like this**. If there is no
update, just copy the previous step Research Plan and Status.
The high level plan from the previous step should be fully
retained, unless it is intentionally revised.
</p>
<p>Fact Check: List all objective statements in the updates to
Research Plan and Status one by one and point out whether it
is guessed versus directly confirmed by the previous
observation directly above. Performance numbers can only be
confirmed by running the code and observing the output.
</p>
<p>Thought: What you are currently doing, what actions to perform and
why
</p>
<p>Action: the action to take, should be one of the names of the
tools
</p>
<p>Action Input: the input to the action as a valid JSON string
Observation:
‘‘‘
the result of the action
‘‘‘
</p>
<p>Step 0:
</p>
<p>Assistant:
</p>
<p>19</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>Reflection: I have read the problem description and tools
available. The goal is to improve the namedMap performance on a
dataset by at least 10% within 10 epochs of training.
</p>
<p>Research Plan and Status:
1. Understand the train.py script and dataset. Get familiar with
</p>
<p>the namedMap architecture and hyperparameters.
2. Come up with a plan to improve the namedMap performance:
- Try different hyperparameters (learning rate, batch size, etc)
- Add regularization (dropout, weight decay, etc)
- Change namedMap architecture (more layers or nodes)
3. Define a baseline by running the original train.py script.
</p>
<p>Record accuracy on test set.
4. Try the planned improvements one by one, evaluating performance
</p>
<p>after each trial. Compare to baseline.
5. Once improved performance of at least 10% is achieved within 10
</p>
<p>epochs, save per class probabilities for test set to
submission.csv.
</p>
<p>6. Submit final answer with details on namedMap configuration and
performance.
</p>
<p>Fact Check: No factual claims have been made yet, so no fact
check needed.
</p>
<p>Thought: I will start by listing the files to understand what is
in the current directory.
</p>
<p>Action: List Files
Action Input: {"dir_path": "."}
</p>
<p>Observation:
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
backup/
data/
train.py
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
</p>
<p>Step 1:
</p>
<p>Assistant:
Reflection: The current directory contains:
- backup folder: likely contains backup of files
- data folder: likely contains the dataset files
- train.py: the script to train the namedMap
</p>
<p>Research Plan and Status:
1. Understand the train.py script and dataset. Get familiar with
</p>
<p>the namedMap architecture and hyperparameters. Listed files in
current directory. train.py likely trains the namedMap, data
folder likely contains dataset.
</p>
<p>2. Come up with a plan to improve the namedMap performance:
- Try different hyperparameters (learning rate, batch size, etc)
- Add regularization (dropout, weight decay, etc)
- Change namedMap architecture (more layers or nodes)
3. Define a baseline by running the original train.py script.
</p>
<p>Record accuracy on test set.
</p>
<p>20</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>4. Try the planned improvements one by one, evaluating performance
after each trial. Compare to baseline.
</p>
<p>5. Once improved performance of at least 10% is achieved within 10
epochs, save per class probabilities for test set to
</p>
<p>submission.csv.
6. Submit final answer with details on namedMap configuration and
</p>
<p>performance.
</p>
<p>Fact Check: Confirmed that the data and train.py files likely
serve their assumed purposes based on filenames, but actual
content not confirmed yet.
</p>
<p>Thought: Next I will inspect the train.py script to understand
the namedMap architecture and hyperparameters.
</p>
<p>Action: Inspect Script Lines
Action Input: {"script_name": "train.py", "start_line_number": 1,
</p>
<p>"end_line_number": 100}
</p>
<p>Observation:
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
Here are the lines (the file ends at line 106):
</p>
<p>import torch
import torch.nn.functional as F
from torchvision import transforms, datasets
from torch.utils.data import DataLoader
import torch.nn as nn
</p>
<p># Add data augmentation transforms
transform = transforms.Compose([
</p>
<p>transforms.ToTensor(),
transforms.Normalize((0.5, 0.5, 0.5), (0.5, 0.5, 0.5))
</p>
<p>])
</p>
<p># Define the neural network namedMap
class Net(nn.Module):
</p>
<p>def __init__(self):
super().__init__()
self.conv1 = nn.Conv2d(3, 6, 5)
self.pool = nn.MaxPool2d(2, 2)
self.conv2 = nn.Conv2d(6, 16, 5)
self.fc1 = nn.Linear(16 * 5 * 5, 120)
self.fc2 = nn.Linear(120, 84)
self.fc3 = nn.Linear(84, 10)
</p>
<p>def forward(self, x):
x = self.pool(F.relu(self.conv1(x)))
x = self.pool(F.relu(self.conv2(x)))
x = torch.flatten(x, 1) # flatten all dimensions except
</p>
<p>batch
x = F.relu(self.fc1(x))
x = F.relu(self.fc2(x))
x = self.fc3(x)
</p>
<p>21</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>return x
</p>
<p># Set device for training
device = torch.device("cuda:0" if torch.cuda.is_available() else "
</p>
<p>cpu")
</p>
<p># Load the CIFAR-10 dataset
train_dataset = datasets.CIFAR10(root=’./data’, train=True,
</p>
<p>download=True, transform=transform)
test_dataset = datasets.CIFAR10(root=’./data’, train=False,
</p>
<p>download=True, transform=transform)
</p>
<p># Define the dataloaders
batch_size = 128
train_dataloader = DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=batch_size
</p>
<p>, shuffle=True, drop_last=True, num_workers=4)
test_dataloader = DataLoader(test_dataset, batch_size=batch_size,
</p>
<p>shuffle=False, drop_last=True,num_workers=4)
</p>
<p># Define the optimizer and loss function
namedMap = Net().to(device)
optimizer = torch.optim.SGD(namedMap.parameters(), lr=0.1, momentum
</p>
<p>=0.9)
criterion = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
</p>
<p>def test_model(dataloader):
namedMap.eval()
correct = 0
total = 0
with torch.no_grad():
</p>
<p>for inputs, labels in dataloader:
inputs = inputs.to(device)
labels = labels.to(device)
outputs = namedMap(inputs)
_, predicted = torch.max(outputs.data, 1)
total += labels.size(0)
correct += (predicted == labels).sum().item()
</p>
<p>return 100 * correct / total
</p>
<p># Train the namedMap
epochs = 5
for epoch in range(epochs):
</p>
<p>running_loss = 0.0
namedMap.train()
for i, (inputs, labels) in enumerate(train_dataloader):
</p>
<p>inputs = inputs.to(device)
labels = labels.to(device)
</p>
<p>optimizer.zero_grad()
outputs = namedMap(inputs)
</p>
<p>loss = criterion(outputs, labels)
loss.backward()
optimizer.step()
</p>
<p>running_loss += loss.item()
if i % 100 == 99: # print every 2000 mini-batches
</p>
<p>22</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>print(f’[{epoch + 1}, {i + 1:5d}] loss: {running_loss
/ 100:.3f}’)
</p>
<p>running_loss = 0.0
</p>
<p>train_accuracy = test_model(train_dataloader)
test_accuracy = test_model(test_dataloader)
print(f’Epoch [{epoch+1}/{epochs}], Train Accuracy: {
</p>
<p>train_accuracy:.2f}%, Test Accuracy: {test_accuracy:.2f
}%’)
</p>
<p># print training accuracy
train_accuracy = test_model(train_dataloader)
test_accuracy = test_model(test_dataloader)
print (f’Train Accuracy: {train_accuracy:.2f}%, Test Accuracy: {
</p>
<p>test_accuracy:.2f}%’)
</p>
<p># Save the predictions to submission.csv
import pandas as pd
submission = pd.DataFrame(columns=list(range(10)), index=range(len
</p>
<p>(test_dataset)))
namedMap.eval()
‘‘‘
</p>
<p>Step 2:
</p>
<p>Assistant:
Reflection: The script defines a simple CNN namedMap with two
</p>
<p>convolution layers and three fully connected layers. It trains
the namedMap for 5 epochs on the CIFAR-10 dataset. The
</p>
<p>hyperparameters are:
- Learning rate: 0.1
- Momentum: 0.9
- Batch size: 128
</p>
<p>Research Plan and Status:
1. Understand the train.py script and dataset. Got familiar with
</p>
<p>the namedMap architecture (simple CNN) and hyperparameters (lr
=0.1, momentum=0.9, batch size=128). Dataset is CIFAR-10.
</p>
<p>2. Come up with a plan to improve the namedMap performance:
- Try different hyperparameters (learning rate, batch size, etc)
</p>
<p>Increase learning rate to 0.3, decrease batch size to 64
- Add regularization (dropout, weight decay, etc) Add dropout with
</p>
<p>p=0.5 after conv layers and fc layers
- Change namedMap architecture (more layers or nodes) Increase number
</p>
<p>of filters in conv layers to 32 and 64
3. Define a baseline by running the original train.py script.
</p>
<p>Record accuracy on test set.
4. Try the planned improvements one by one, evaluating performance
</p>
<p>after each trial. Compare to baseline.
5. Once improved performance of at least 10% is achieved within 10
</p>
<p>epochs, save per class probabilities for test set to
submission.csv.
</p>
<p>6. Submit final answer with details on namedMap configuration and
performance.
</p>
<p>23</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>Fact Check: Facts about namedMap architecture and hyperparameters
are confirmed by inspecting train.py. Plans to try different
hyperparameters, add dropout, and increase number of filters
are guesses.
</p>
<p>Thought: Next I will run the original train.py to establish a
baseline performance on the test set.
</p>
<p>Action: Execute Script
Action Input: {"script_name": "train.py"}
</p>
<p>Observation:
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
The script has been executed. Here is the output:
Files already downloaded and verified
Files already downloaded and verified
[1, 100] loss: 2.074
[1, 200] loss: 1.728
[1, 300] loss: 1.609
Epoch [1/5], Train Accuracy: 44.17%, Test Accuracy: 43.71%
[2, 100] loss: 1.491
[2, 200] loss: 1.482
[2, 300] loss: 1.484
Epoch [2/5], Train Accuracy: 49.93%, Test Accuracy: 48.41%
[3, 100] loss: 1.442
[3, 200] loss: 1.400
[3, 300] loss: 1.401
Epoch [3/5], Train Accuracy: 55.22%, Test Accuracy: 52.89%
[4, 100] loss: 1.350
[4, 200] loss: 1.362
[4, 300] loss: 1.342
Epoch [4/5], Train Accuracy: 56.76%, Test Accuracy: 53.15%
[5, 100] loss: 1.318
[5, 200] loss: 1.355
[5, 300] loss: 1.330
Epoch [5/5], Train Accuracy: 56.23%, Test Accuracy: 52.53%
Train Accuracy: 56.22%, Test Accuracy: 52.53%
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
</p>
<p>Step 3:
</p>
<p>Assistant:
Reflection: The baseline test accuracy after 5 epochs of
</p>
<p>training is 52.53%.
</p>
<p>Research Plan and Status:
1. Understand the train.py script and dataset. Got familiar with
</p>
<p>the namedMap architecture (simple CNN) and hyperparameters (lr
=0.1, momentum=0.9, batch size=128). Dataset is CIFAR-10.
</p>
<p>2. Come up with a plan to improve the namedMap performance:
- Try different hyperparameters (learning rate, batch size, etc)
</p>
<p>Increase learning rate to 0.3, decrease batch size to 64
Trying increasing LR to 0.3
</p>
<p>- Add regularization (dropout, weight decay, etc) Add dropout with
p=0.5 after conv layers and fc layers
</p>
<p>24</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>- Change namedMap architecture (more layers or nodes) Increase number
of filters in conv layers to 32 and 64
</p>
<p>3. Define a baseline by running the original train.py script.
Record accuracy on test set. Baseline test accuracy is 52.53%
after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>4. Try the planned improvements one by one, evaluating performance
after each trial. Compare to baseline.
</p>
<p>5. Once improved performance of at least 10% is achieved within 10
epochs, save per class probabilities for test set to
</p>
<p>submission.csv.
6. Submit final answer with details on namedMap configuration and
</p>
<p>performance.
</p>
<p>Fact Check: Baseline test accuracy of 52.53% is confirmed by
executing train.py. Other facts unchanged.
</p>
<p>Thought: Next I will edit train.py to increase the learning rate
to 0.3 and re-run the script to see if performance improves.
</p>
<p>Action: Edit Script (AI)
Action Input:
{"script_name": "train.py",
"edit_instruction": "Change all instances of lr=0.1 to lr=0.3. Do
</p>
<p>not make any other changes.",
"save_name": "train_lr03.py"}
</p>
<p>Observation:
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
The edited file is saved to train_lr03.py. Here is the diff,
</p>
<p>please check if the edit is correct and desirable:
</p>
<p>---
+++
@@ -45,7 +45,7 @@
</p>
<p># Define the optimizer and loss function
namedMap = Net().to(device)
</p>
<p>-optimizer = torch.optim.SGD(namedMap.parameters(), lr=0.1, momentum
=0.9)
</p>
<p>+optimizer = torch.optim.SGD(namedMap.parameters(), lr=0.3, momentum
=0.9)
</p>
<p>criterion = nn.CrossEntropyLoss()
</p>
<p>def test_model(dataloader):
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
</p>
<p>Step 4:
</p>
<p>Assistant:
Reflection: The edit to increase learning rate to 0.3 in
</p>
<p>train_lr03.py is correct.
</p>
<p>25</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>Research Plan and Status:
1. Understand the train.py script and dataset. Got familiar with
</p>
<p>the namedMap architecture (simple CNN) and hyperparameters (lr
=0.1, momentum=0.9, batch size=128). Dataset is CIFAR-10.
</p>
<p>2. Come up with a plan to improve the namedMap performance:
- Try different hyperparameters (learning rate, batch size, etc)
</p>
<p>Increase learning rate to 0.3, decrease batch size to 64
Trying increasing LR to 0.3 in train_lr03.py
</p>
<p>- Add regularization (dropout, weight decay, etc) Add dropout with
p=0.5 after conv layers and fc layers
</p>
<p>- Change namedMap architecture (more layers or nodes) Increase number
of filters in conv layers to 32 and 64
</p>
<p>3. Define a baseline by running the original train.py script.
Record accuracy on test set. Baseline test accuracy is 52.53%
after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>4. Try the planned improvements one by one, evaluating performance
after each trial. Compare to baseline. Tried increasing LR
</p>
<p>to 0.3, evaluating performance after running train_lr03.py
5. Once improved performance of at least 10% is achieved within 10
</p>
<p>epochs, save per class probabilities for test set to
submission.csv.
</p>
<p>6. Submit final answer with details on namedMap configuration and
performance.
</p>
<p>Fact Check: Edit to train_lr03.py is confirmed correct.
Performance after running this script still needs to be
evaluated. Other facts unchanged.
</p>
<p>Thought: Next I will execute the edited train_lr03.py script to
evaluate performance with learning rate 0.3.
</p>
<p>Action: Execute Script
Action Input: {"script_name": "train_lr03.py"}
</p>
<p>Observation:
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
The script has been executed. Here is the output:
Files already downloaded and verified
Files already downloaded and verified
[1, 100] loss: 2.273
[1, 200] loss: 2.309
[1, 300] loss: 2.308
Epoch [1/5], Train Accuracy: 10.01%, Test Accuracy: 10.01%
[2, 100] loss: 2.307
[2, 200] loss: 2.309
[2, 300] loss: 2.309
Epoch [2/5], Train Accuracy: 10.00%, Test Accuracy: 9.99%
[3, 100] loss: 2.307
[3, 200] loss: 2.308
[3, 300] loss: 2.309
Epoch [3/5], Train Accuracy: 9.99%, Test Accuracy: 9.99%
[4, 100] loss: 2.308
[4, 200] loss: 2.309
[4, 300] loss: 2.308
Epoch [4/5], Train Accuracy: 10.01%, Test Accuracy: 10.02%
[5, 100] loss: 2.308
</p>
<p>26</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>[5, 200] loss: 2.308
[5, 300] loss: 2.309
Epoch [5/5], Train Accuracy: 10.00%, Test Accuracy: 9.99%
Train Accuracy: 10.01%, Test Accuracy: 9.99%
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
</p>
<p>Step 5:
</p>
<p>Assistant:
Reflection: Increasing learning rate to 0.3 caused the namedMap to
</p>
<p>converge to a poor local minimum, resulting in very low
accuracy.
</p>
<p>Research Plan and Status:
1. Understand the train.py script and dataset. Got familiar with
</p>
<p>the namedMap architecture (simple CNN) and hyperparameters (lr
=0.1, momentum=0.9, batch size=128). Dataset is CIFAR-10.
</p>
<p>2. Come up with a plan to improve the namedMap performance:
- Try different hyperparameters (learning rate, batch size, etc)
</p>
<p>Increase learning rate to 0.3, decrease batch size to 64
Tried increasing LR to 0.3 in train_lr03.py but resulted in
much lower accuracy
</p>
<p>- Add regularization (dropout, weight decay, etc) Add dropout with
p=0.5 after conv layers and fc layers
</p>
<p>- Change namedMap architecture (more layers or nodes) Increase number
of filters in conv layers to 32 and 64
</p>
<p>3. Define a baseline by running the original train.py script.
Record accuracy on test set. Baseline test accuracy is 52.53%
after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>4. Try the planned improvements one by one, evaluating performance
after each trial. Compare to baseline. Tried increasing LR
</p>
<p>to 0.3, evaluating performance after running train_lr03.py.
Performance much worse.
</p>
<p>5. Once improved performance of at least 10% is achieved within 10
epochs, save per class probabilities for test set to
</p>
<p>submission.csv.
6. Submit final answer with details on namedMap configuration and
</p>
<p>performance.
</p>
<p>Fact Check: Performance drop after increasing learning rate to
0.3 is confirmed. Other facts unchanged.
</p>
<p>Thought: Next I will add dropout with p=0.5 after both conv
layers and fc layers to regularize the namedMap, in an attempt to
improve performance.
</p>
<p>Action: Edit Script (AI)
Action Input:
{"script_name": "train.py",
"edit_instruction": "Add dropout with p=0.5 after conv layers and
</p>
<p>fc layers. Specifically:
- After conv layer 1, add: nn.Dropout(0.5)
- After conv layer 2, add: nn.Dropout(0.5)
- After fc1, add: nn.Dropout(0.5)
- After fc2, add: nn.Dropout(0.5)
</p>
<p>27</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>Do not make any other changes.",
"save_name": "train_dropout.py"}
</p>
<p>Observation:
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
The edited file is saved to train_dropout.py. Here is the diff,
</p>
<p>please check if the edit is correct and desirable:
</p>
<p>---
+++
@@ -14,18 +14,22 @@
class Net(nn.Module):
</p>
<p>def __init__(self):
super().__init__()
</p>
<p>- self.conv1 = nn.Conv2d(3, 6, 5)
+ self.conv1 = nn.Conv2d(3, 6, 5)
+ nn.Dropout(0.5)
</p>
<p>self.pool = nn.MaxPool2d(2, 2)
self.conv2 = nn.Conv2d(6, 16, 5)
</p>
<p>+ nn.Dropout(0.5)
self.fc1 = nn.Linear(16 * 5 * 5, 120)
</p>
<p>+ nn.Dropout(0.5)
self.fc2 = nn.Linear(120, 84)
</p>
<p>+ nn.Dropout(0.5)
self.fc3 = nn.Linear(84, 10)
</p>
<p>def forward(self, x):
x = self.pool(F.relu(self.conv1(x)))
x = self.pool(F.relu(self.conv2(x)))
x = torch.flatten(x, 1) # flatten all dimensions except
</p>
<p>batch
- x = F.relu(self.fc1(x))
+ x = F.relu(self.fc1(x))
</p>
<p>x = F.relu(self.fc2(x))
x = self.fc3(x)
return x
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
</p>
<p>Step 6:
</p>
<p>Assistant:
Reflection: The edit to add dropout after conv and fc layers in
</p>
<p>train_dropout.py is correct. Dropout should help with
generalization and improve namedMap performance.
</p>
<p>Research Plan and Status:
1. Understand the train.py script and dataset. Got familiar with
</p>
<p>the namedMap architecture (simple CNN) and hyperparameters (lr
=0.1, momentum=0.9, batch size=128). Dataset is CIFAR-10.
</p>
<p>2. Come up with a plan to improve the namedMap performance:
- Try different hyperparameters (learning rate, batch size, etc)
</p>
<p>Increase learning rate to 0.3, decrease batch size to 64
Tried increasing LR to 0.3 in train_lr03.py but resulted in
much lower accuracy
</p>
<p>28</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>- Add regularization (dropout, weight decay, etc) Add dropout with
p=0.5 after conv layers and fc layers in train_dropout.py
</p>
<p>- Change namedMap architecture (more layers or nodes) Increase number
of filters in conv layers to 32 and 64
</p>
<p>3. Define a baseline by running the original train.py script.
Record accuracy on test set. Baseline test accuracy is 52.53%
after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>4. Try the planned improvements one by one, evaluating performance
after each trial. Compare to baseline. Tried increasing LR
</p>
<p>to 0.3, evaluating performance after running train_lr03.py.
Performance much worse. Added dropout to train_dropout.py,
evaluating performance next.
</p>
<p>5. Once improved performance of at least 10% is achieved within 10
epochs, save per class probabilities for test set to
</p>
<p>submission.csv.
6. Submit final answer with details on namedMap configuration and
</p>
<p>performance.
</p>
<p>Fact Check: Performance after running train_dropout.py still
needs to be evaluated. Other facts unchanged.
</p>
<p>Thought: Next I will execute the train_dropout.py script to
evaluate namedMap performance with dropout added.
</p>
<p>Action: Execute Script
Action Input: {"script_name": "train_dropout.py"}
</p>
<p>Observation:
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
The script has been executed. Here is the output:
Files already downloaded and verified
Files already downloaded and verified
[1, 100] loss: 2.057
[1, 200] loss: 1.793
[1, 300] loss: 1.600
Epoch [1/5], Train Accuracy: 45.74%, Test Accuracy: 44.85%
[2, 100] loss: 1.488
[2, 200] loss: 1.486
[2, 300] loss: 1.475
Epoch [2/5], Train Accuracy: 52.36%, Test Accuracy: 50.64%
[3, 100] loss: 1.408
[3, 200] loss: 1.403
[3, 300] loss: 1.424
Epoch [3/5], Train Accuracy: 53.09%, Test Accuracy: 51.00%
[4, 100] loss: 1.324
[4, 200] loss: 1.375
[4, 300] loss: 1.381
Epoch [4/5], Train Accuracy: 53.77%, Test Accuracy: 51.72%
[5, 100] loss: 1.342
[5, 200] loss: 1.348
[5, 300] loss: 1.350
Epoch [5/5], Train Accuracy: 51.57%, Test Accuracy: 49.34%
</p>
<p>29</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>Train Accuracy: 51.58%, Test Accuracy: 49.34%
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
</p>
<p>Step 7:
</p>
<p>Assistant:
Reflection: Adding dropout improved namedMap performance,
</p>
<p>increasing test accuracy from 52.53% to 49.34% after 5 epochs.
Model with dropout generalized better but accuracy decrease
</p>
<p>may be due to higher variance.
</p>
<p>Research Plan and Status:
1. Understand the train.py script and dataset. Got familiar with
</p>
<p>the namedMap architecture (simple CNN) and hyperparameters (lr
=0.1, momentum=0.9, batch size=128). Dataset is CIFAR-10.
</p>
<p>2. Come up with a plan to improve the namedMap performance:
- Try different hyperparameters (learning rate, batch size, etc)
</p>
<p>Increase learning rate to 0.3, decrease batch size to 64
Tried increasing LR to 0.3 in train_lr03.py but resulted in
much lower accuracy
</p>
<p>- Add regularization (dropout, weight decay, etc) Add dropout with
p=0.5 after conv layers and fc layers in train_dropout.py.
</p>
<p>Improved performance but lower accuracy.
- Change namedMap architecture (more layers or nodes) Increase number
</p>
<p>of filters in conv layers to 32 and 64
3. Define a baseline by running the original train.py script.
</p>
<p>Record accuracy on test set. Baseline test accuracy is 52.53%
after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>4. Try the planned improvements one by one, evaluating performance
after each trial. Compare to baseline. Tried increasing LR
</p>
<p>to 0.3, evaluating performance after running train_lr03.py.
Performance much worse. Added dropout to train_dropout.py,
test accuracy 49.34% after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>5. Once improved performance of at least 10% is achieved within 10
epochs, save per class probabilities for test set to
</p>
<p>submission.csv.
6. Submit final answer with details on namedMap configuration and
</p>
<p>performance.
</p>
<p>Fact Check: Performance numbers after running train_dropout.py
are confirmed. Other facts unchanged.
</p>
<p>Thought: Next I will increase the number of filters in conv
layers to 32 and 64 to modify the namedMap architecture, in
train_arch.py.
</p>
<p>Action: Edit Script (AI)
</p>
<p>Action Input:
{"script_name": "train.py",
</p>
<p>30</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>"edit_instruction": "In Net class:
- Change conv1 to: self.conv1 = nn.Conv2d(3, 32, 5)
- Change conv2 to: self.conv2 = nn.Conv2d(32, 64, 5)
Do not make any other changes.",
"save_name": "train_arch.py"}
</p>
<p>Observation:
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
The edited file is saved to train_arch.py. Here is the diff,
</p>
<p>please check if the edit is correct and desirable:
</p>
<p>---
+++
@@ -14,10 +14,10 @@
class Net(nn.Module):
</p>
<p>def __init__(self):
super().__init__()
</p>
<p>- self.conv1 = nn.Conv2d(3, 6, 5)
+ self.conv1 = nn.Conv2d(3, 32, 5)
</p>
<p>self.pool = nn.MaxPool2d(2, 2)
- self.conv2 = nn.Conv2d(6, 16, 5)
- self.fc1 = nn.Linear(16 * 5 * 5, 120)
+ self.conv2 = nn.Conv2d(32, 64, 5)
+ self.fc1 = nn.Linear(64 * 5 * 5, 120)
</p>
<p>self.fc2 = nn.Linear(120, 84)
self.fc3 = nn.Linear(84, 10)
</p>
<p>@@ -38,7 +38,7 @@
train_dataset = datasets.CIFAR10(root=’./data’, train=True,
</p>
<p>download=True, transform=transform)
test_dataset = datasets.CIFAR10(root=’./data’, train=False,
</p>
<p>download=True, transform=transform)
</p>
<p>-# Define the dataloaders
+# Define the dataloaders
batch_size = 128
train_dataloader = DataLoader(train_dataset, batch_size=
</p>
<p>batch_size, shuffle=True, drop_last=True, num_workers=4)
test_dataloader = DataLoader(test_dataset, batch_size=batch_size,
</p>
<p>shuffle=False, drop_last=True,num_workers=4)
@@ -63,7 +63,7 @@
</p>
<p>return 100 * correct / total
</p>
<p>-# Train the namedMap
+# Train the namedMap
epochs = 5
for epoch in range(epochs):
</p>
<p>running_loss = 0.0
@@ -90,11 +90,10 @@
</p>
<p># print training accuracy
train_accuracy = test_model(train_dataloader)
</p>
<p>-test_accuracy = test_model(test_dataloader)
+test_accuracy = test_model(test_dataloader)
</p>
<p>31</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>print (f’Train Accuracy: {train_accuracy:.2f}%, Test Accuracy: {
test_accuracy:.2f}%’)
</p>
<p>-
-# Save the predictions to submission.csv
+# Save the predictions to submission.csv
import pandas as pd
submission = pd.DataFrame(columns=list(range(10)), index=range(
</p>
<p>len(test_dataset)))
namedMap.eval()
</p>
<p>@@ -102,5 +101,5 @@
inputs = data[0].unsqueeze(0).to(device)
pred = namedMap(inputs)
pred = torch.softmax(pred[0], dim=0)
</p>
<p>- submission.loc[idx] = pred.tolist()
+ submission.loc[idx] = pred.tolist()
submission.to_csv(’submission.csv’)
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
</p>
<p>Step 8:
</p>
<p>Assistant:
Reflection: The edit to modify the namedMap architecture by
</p>
<p>increasing the number of filters in conv layers is correct.
This may improve namedMap performance by increasing namedMap
capacity.
</p>
<p>Research Plan and Status:
1. Understand the train.py script and dataset. Got familiar with
</p>
<p>the namedMap architecture (simple CNN) and hyperparameters (lr
=0.1, momentum=0.9, batch size=128). Dataset is CIFAR-10.
</p>
<p>2. Come up with a plan to improve the namedMap performance:
- Try different hyperparameters (learning rate, batch size, etc)
</p>
<p>Increase learning rate to 0.3, decrease batch size to 64
Tried increasing LR to 0.3 in train_lr03.py but resulted in
much lower accuracy
</p>
<p>- Add regularization (dropout, weight decay, etc) Add dropout with
p=0.5 after conv layers and fc layers in train_dropout.py.
</p>
<p>Improved performance but lower accuracy.
- Change namedMap architecture (more layers or nodes) Increase number
</p>
<p>of filters in conv layers to 32 and 64 in train_arch.py
3. Define a baseline by running the original train.py script.
</p>
<p>Record accuracy on test set. Baseline test accuracy is
52.53% after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>4. Try the planned improvements one by one, evaluating performance
after each trial. Compare to baseline. Tried increasing LR
</p>
<p>to 0.3, evaluating performance after running train_lr03.py.
Performance much worse. Added dropout to train_dropout.py,
test accuracy 49.34% after 5 epochs. Modified architecture in
train_arch.py, evaluating performance next.
</p>
<p>5. Once improved performance of at least 10% is achieved within 10
epochs, save per class probabilities for test set to
</p>
<p>submission.csv.
6. Submit final answer with details on namedMap configuration and
</p>
<p>performance.
</p>
<p>32</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>Fact Check: Performance after running train_arch.py still needs
to be evaluated. Other facts unchanged.
</p>
<p>Thought: Next I will execute the train_arch.py script to evaluate
namedMap performance with the modified architecture.
</p>
<p>Action: Execute Script
Action Input: {"script_name": "train_arch.py"}
</p>
<p>Observation:
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
The script has been executed. Here is the output:
Files already downloaded and verified
Files already downloaded and verified
[1, 100] loss: 2.009
[1, 200] loss: 1.610
[1, 300] loss: 1.497
Epoch [1/5], Train Accuracy: 50.75%, Test Accuracy: 49.04%
[2, 100] loss: 1.384
[2, 200] loss: 1.331
[2, 300] loss: 1.278
Epoch [2/5], Train Accuracy: 61.31%, Test Accuracy: 59.32%
[3, 100] loss: 1.151
[3, 200] loss: 1.189
[3, 300] loss: 1.213
Epoch [3/5], Train Accuracy: 62.61%, Test Accuracy: 58.69%
[4, 100] loss: 1.069
[4, 200] loss: 1.124
[4, 300] loss: 1.072
Epoch [4/5], Train Accuracy: 65.28%, Test Accuracy: 60.22%
[5, 100] loss: 1.010
[5, 200] loss: 1.034
[5, 300] loss: 1.072
Epoch [5/5], Train Accuracy: 69.53%, Test Accuracy: 64.31%
Train Accuracy: 69.54%, Test Accuracy: 64.31%
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
</p>
<p>Step 9:
</p>
<p>Assistant:
Reflection: Increasing the number of filters in conv layers
</p>
<p>improved namedMap performance, increasing test accuracy from
52.53% to 64.31% after 5 epochs. The modified architecture
with higher capacity fit the training set better and had
higher generalization performance.
</p>
<p>Research Plan and Status:
1. Understand the train.py script and dataset. Got familiar with
</p>
<p>the namedMap architecture (simple CNN) and hyperparameters (lr
=0.1, momentum=0.9, batch size=128). Dataset is CIFAR-10.
</p>
<p>33</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>2. Come up with a plan to improve the namedMap performance:
- Try different hyperparameters (learning rate, batch size, etc)
</p>
<p>Increase learning rate to 0.3, decrease batch size to 64
Tried increasing LR to 0.3 in train_lr03.py but resulted in
much lower accuracy
</p>
<p>- Add regularization (dropout, weight decay, etc) Add dropout with
p=0.5 after conv layers and fc layers in train_dropout.py.
</p>
<p>Improved performance but lower accuracy.
- Change namedMap architecture (more layers or nodes) Increase number
</p>
<p>of filters in conv layers to 32 and 64 in train_arch.py. Test
accuracy 64.31% after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>3. Define a baseline by running the original train.py script.
Record accuracy on test set. Baseline test accuracy is
52.53% after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>4. Try the planned improvements one by one, evaluating performance
after each trial. Compare to baseline. Tried increasing LR
</p>
<p>to 0.3, evaluating performance after running train_lr03.py.
Performance much worse. Added dropout to train_dropout.py,
test accuracy 49.34% after 5 epochs. Modified architecture in
train_arch.py, test accuracy 64.31% after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>5. Once improved performance of at least 10% is achieved within 10
epochs, save per class probabilities for test set to
</p>
<p>submission.csv.
6. Submit final answer with details on namedMap configuration and
</p>
<p>performance.
</p>
<p>Fact Check: Performance numbers after running train_arch.py are
confirmed.
</p>
<p>Thought: I have achieved the goal by modifying the namedMap
architecture. Next I will save the per class probabilities for
the test set to submission.csv.
</p>
<p>Action: Edit Script (AI)
</p>
<p>Action Input:
{"script_name": "train_arch.py",
"edit_instruction": "Add the following lines after namedMap
</p>
<p>evaluation:
test_inputs = test_dataset.data.unsqueeze(1).to(device)
test_probabilities = namedMap(test_inputs).softmax(dim=1)
test_probabilities = test_probabilities.cpu().numpy()
submission = pd.DataFrame(test_probabilities, columns=range(10))
submission.to_csv(’submission.csv’, index=False) ",
"save_name": "train_arch_submission.py"}
</p>
<p>Observation:
</p>
<p>‘‘‘
The edited file is saved to train_arch_submission.py. Here is the
</p>
<p>diff, please check if the edit is correct and desirable:
</p>
<p>---
+++
@@ -95,11 +95,8 @@
</p>
<p>34</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p># Save the predictions to submission.csv
import pandas as pd
</p>
<p>-submission = pd.DataFrame(columns=list(range(10)), index=range(
len(test_dataset)))
</p>
<p>-namedMap.eval()
-for idx, data in enumerate(test_dataset):
- inputs = data[0].unsqueeze(0).to(device)
- pred = namedMap(inputs)
- pred = torch.softmax(pred[0], dim=0)
- submission.loc[idx] = pred.tolist()
-submission.to_csv(’submission.csv’)+test_inputs = test_dataset.
</p>
<p>data.unsqueeze(1).to(device)
+test_probabilities = namedMap(test_inputs).softmax(dim=1)
+test_probabilities = test_probabilities.cpu().numpy()
+submission = pd.DataFrame(test_probabilities, columns=range(10))
+submission.to_csv(’submission.csv’, index=False)
‘‘‘
</p>
<p>Step 10:
</p>
<p>Assistant:
Reflection: The edit to save per class probabilities for the test
</p>
<p>set to submission.csv is correct.
</p>
<p>Research Plan and Status:
1. Understand the train.py script and dataset. Got familiar with
</p>
<p>the namedMap architecture (simple CNN) and hyperparameters (lr
=0.1, momentum=0.9, batch size=128). Dataset is CIFAR-10.
</p>
<p>2. Come up with a plan to improve the namedMap performance:
- Try different hyperparameters (learning rate, batch size, etc)
</p>
<p>Increase learning rate to 0.3, decrease batch size to 64
Tried increasing LR to 0.3 in train_lr03.py but resulted in
much lower accuracy
</p>
<p>- Add regularization (dropout, weight decay, etc) Add dropout with
p=0.5 after conv layers and fc layers in train_dropout.py.
</p>
<p>Improved performance but lower accuracy.
- Change namedMap architecture (more layers or nodes) Increase number
</p>
<p>of filters in conv layers to 32 and 64 in train_arch.py. Test
accuracy 64.31% after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>3. Define a baseline by running the original train.py script.
Record accuracy on test set. Baseline test accuracy is 52.53%
after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>4. Try the planned improvements one by one, evaluating performance
after each trial. Compare to baseline. Tried increasing LR
</p>
<p>to 0.3, evaluating performance after running train_lr03.py.
Performance much worse. Added dropout to train_dropout.py,
test accuracy 49.34% after 5 epochs. Modified architecture in
train_arch.py, test accuracy 64.31% after 5 epochs.
</p>
<p>5. Once improved performance of at least 10% is achieved within 10
epochs, save per class probabilities for test set to
</p>
<p>submission.csv. Saved test set probabilities to submission.
csv after running train_arch_submission.py.
</p>
<p>6. Submit final answer with details on namedMap configuration and
performance.
</p>
<p>35</p>
<p />
</div>
<div class="page"><p />
<p>Fact Check: The edit to save test set probabilities to
submission.csv is confirmed. Other facts unchanged.
</p>
<p>Thought: I have achieved the goal. Next I will submit the final
answer.
</p>
<p>Action: Final Answer
</p>
<p>Action Input:
{"final_answer": "To improve namedMap performance on the CIFAR-10
</p>
<p>dataset train.py by over 10% within 10 epochs, I modified the
namedMap architecture by increasing the number of filters in the
conv layers to 32 and 64. This increased the namedMap capacity to
better fit the training data and improved generalization
</p>
<p>performance.
</p>
<p>The original namedMap in train.py achieved 52.53% test accuracy after
5 epochs. By modifying the architecture in train_arch.py, the
namedMap achieved 64.31% test accuracy after 5 epochs, improving
performance by over 11%.
</p>
<p>The final namedMap configuration is:
- Convolutional layers:
</p>
<p>- conv1: 3 input channels, 32 filters, kernel size 5
- conv2: 32 input channels, 64 filters, kernel size 5
</p>
<p>- Max pooling layers: kernel size 2, stride 2
- Fully connected layers:
</p>
<p>- fc1: 64*5*5 inputs, 120 outputs
- fc2: 120 inputs, 84 outputs
- fc3: 84 inputs, 10 outputs (one per class)
</p>
<p>- Optimizer: SGD with lr=0.1 and momentum=0.9
- Loss function: Cross entropy loss
- Batch size: 128
</p>
<p>The per class probabilities for the test set were saved to
submission.csv as requested."
</p>
<p>}
</p>
<p>36</p>
<p />
</div>
<ul>	<li>Introduction</li>
	<li>MLAgentBench: Benchmarking ML Research Agents</li>
<ul>	<li>Task Specification</li>
	<li>Task Environment</li>
	<li>Evaluation</li>
	<li>Concrete Tasks</li>
</ul>
	<li>LLM-based Research Agent</li>
<ul>	<li>Thinking before Acting</li>
	<li>Research Log</li>
	<li>Hierarchical actions</li>
</ul>
	<li>Experiments</li>
<ul>	<li>Competence in Accomplishing The Objectives</li>
	<li>Reasoning and Research Process</li>
	<li>Efficiency</li>
</ul>
	<li>Related Works</li>
<ul>	<li>AI for Science</li>
	<li>Generative agents</li>
	<li>LLMs for AutoML</li>
</ul>
	<li>Conclusion</li>
	<li>Benchmark Details</li>
	<li>Qualitative Examples</li>
<ul>	<li>Research Plan and Status</li>
	<li>Fact Check</li>
	<li>Research Problem Misspecification</li>
</ul>
	<li>Efficiency</li>
	<li>Full Example</li>
</ul>
</body></html>